---
birth_date: null
birth_place: null
cemetery_plot: null
death_date: null
death_place: null
family_name: null
given_names: null
title: William Richard Miller
---

# Adam Bloch

## 1840- 1843, Bavaria - March 9, 1915 Seldovia, Alaska

**Adam BLOCH** was born in Bavaria, Germany sometime
between 1840 1843. He came to the USA with his parents and at least one
grandmother. He claimed that his parents, who died months apart from one
another, told him that he was born 2 Jul 1840 in Bavaria, Germany,
though he may actually have been born as late as 1843, perhaps fudging
his birth year to appear a few years older in his application for a war
pension. After the death of his parents he spent time with his
grandmother and learned to be a baker in New York City.

Military Service:

-   He enlisted in New York City on 26 May 1861 and was mustered in as a
    private in Company C of the 6th New York Infantry Volunteer
    Regiment, aka \"Wilson\'s Zouaves,\" on 20 Jun 1861.

-   He was discharged as a private at New Orleans, LA on 27 Nov 1862 in
    order to enlist in the U.S. Army. He enlisted in Company C, 2nd U.S.
    Artillery in New Orleans, LA on 29 Nov 1862 and was mustered out at
    Fort Point, San Francisco, CA on 5 Apr 1866. During this period he
    deserted on 6 Aug 1863, was apprehended on 12 Dec 1863, tried in a
    general court-martial, found guilty and duly sentenced. His right
    leg was also injured by a horse during a company drill at Baton
    Rouge, LA in 1863.

-   On 10 Apr 1866 re-enlisted at Fort Point, San Francisco, CA in
    Company H, 2nd U.S. Artillery, was appointed CPL on 22 Feb 1867,
    promoted to SGT on 22 Aug 1867, and discharged at Sitka, Department
    of Alaska on 10 Apr 1869.

-   He immediately re-enlisted in the same company, was appointed 1st
    SGT on 1 Jan 1871, appointed Commissary SGT on 21 Jun 1873, and
    discharged at Sitka on 27 Nov 1873.

-   He next enlisted in Company L, 4th U.S. Artillery on 5 Oct 1874 at
    Sitka, was appointed CPL 14 Mar 1875, was promoted to SGT on 23 Aug
    1875, and was discharged at Alcatraz Island, CA on 4 Oct 1879.

He was located at the Presidio, San Francisco in 1867 when the United
States entered into a treaty with Russia for possession of Alaska.
Sergeant Bloch was one of the men sent to Sitka to take over the Russian
possessions. Bloch remained there about three years and then returned to
the Presidio. By then he had married an Alaskan native woman, Annie
Malacoff. They had two children in Sitka and two more in San Francisco.

He was married to his first wife, Anny-Anna Malakoff, prior to 1870 in
Alaska. She was born about 1843 in Russian America (now Alaska) and died
2 Nov 1895 in Kodiak, Alaska. Adam and Anna had seven known children: 1)
Nellie Block; 2) Annie (Bloch) Christiansen; 3) Mary (Bloch) Andreanoff
Simmons; 4) Jane-Jennie Bloch; 5) Kate (Bloch) Johansen; 6) Frederika
Bloch; and 7) Emma A. (Bloch) White.

By his own account he resided in San Francisco until 19 Apr 1880, when
he was hired by the Alaska Commercial Company and served as their agent
on Unga Island, Alaska, then in Sep 1881 in Unalaska, then in Attu
Island where for nine years he was in charge of the company's port.
There two more girls were born and his wife died. He returned to San
Francisco 1890, where he was naturalized on 24 Jul and remained until 2
Apr 1891. He returned to Alaska, this time Kodiak Island where he
remained until 1894 when he moved on to Seldovia. When the A.C. Company
sold out, Adam Bloch opened his own general store.

Bloch moved to Seldovia in about 1894 where he and John Wall Smith, two
of the first white settlers in the area, operated the Alaska Commercial
Company and the Northern Alaska Commercial Company, respectively. He had
a fleet of about 12 bidarkis manned with natives from Seldovia and
English Bay. As reports of sea otters came in, Bloch would respond by
sending hunting parties to Anchor Point, Nikta Bay and Pye Islands and
especially Barren Islands, but by 1900 the sea otter population had been
obliterated by hunting. Bloch took advantage of the new craze in gold
seeking, and set up his own mercantile, buying provisions as an
independent merchant through ACC in Kodiak. He conducted this business
until the time of his death.

In Seldovia, the Russian Orthodox priest Father John Bortnovsky wrote
that Adam Bloch had fallen in love with a married Aleut woman named
Maarina and she with him. It appeared as though Bloch, in his powerful
position in the settlement had stolen Marina from her husband.
Bortnovsky felt compelled to report this situation in a special letter
to his superiors; nothing, however was ever done. Even Bloch\'s
supervisors in the Alaska Commercial Company administration refused to
enter into the private life of one of their employees. Eventually the
situation cured itself, Marina presumably returning to her husband. Adam
married Elisaveta Balyshev (Elizabeth Balashoff), also known as "Lizzie"
in 1902.

He was married to his second wife, Elizabeth \"Lizzie\" Balashoff, on 9
Sep 1900 at Saint Nicholas Chapel (aka Russian Orthodox Church) in
Seldovia, Alaska by Reverend Ivan E. Bartnovsky. By his second wife he
had four known children: 1) Susana-Susan E. (Bloch) English (director of
Seldovia\'s original library and for whom Susan B. English School is
named); 2) Fredrika \"Rika\" (Bloch) Risoff; 3) Adam Phillip Bloch, Jr.;
and 4) Mary Bloch.

Bloch did become very popular in Seldovia and was very philanthropic to
the community and the church, especially during the time of the flu
epidemic. He also became postmaster in 1905 and held that position until
his death. He was likely the oldest in service in the territory. *When
the school provided by the Alaska Native Service seemed inadequate, Adam
Bloch organized a school board that drew Seldovia into the Territorial
School System. Juanita Anderson came to Seldovia in 1914 as the first
Territorial teacher.*

Adam Bloch died in Seldovia March 9, 1915. A wife, three girls, and a
boy survived him at that place. The other six children, who are all
married women, were also living. A surviving daughter, Mrs. A.K.
Johanson reported the death of her father to the Cordova newspaper.

# Elizabeth Balashoff Bloch Markle

## October 1885, Alaska -- May 1920, Seldovia, Alaska

**Elisaveta Elizabeth Balashoff** was born about in 1984
or 1885 on the Kenai Peninsula. She married **Adam Bloch**
in 1902 when she was about 17 and he was about 61 years old. She was
married to her first husband, Adam Bloch, on 9 Sep 1900 at Saint
Nicholas Chapel (aka Russian Orthodox Church) in Seldovia, Alaska by
Reverend Ivan E. Bartnovsky. They had 4 children, daughters Susan BLOCH
English (1904-1986), Mary BLOCH, Fredrika "Rika" BLOCH Risoff
(1906-1998) and son Adam Phillip BLOCH (1914-2000).

Adam Bloch died in 1915, and on November 13, 1916 Elizabeth married
**Harry Alfred Markle**, in Seldovia. . She and her
daughter **Elizabeth Bessie Markle** (1917-1921) are
buried in the old Seldovia Hillside Cemetery near Main Street.

By her second husband she had two known children: 1) **[Elizabeth
\"Bessie\" MARKLE]{.smallcaps}**; and 2) \"Baby\" MARKLE. Her only
grandchildren came from her eldest three known children. Her death
certificate indicates that she died in Anchorage of a puerperal
infection, i.e., puerperal sepsis, a condition that arises from
childbirth, and that she had been treated for this, presumably after
having been taken to Anchorage, from 5 May to 11 May 1920. The condition
was indicated as having existed for 14 days. Her death certificate also
indicates that she was buried in Anchorage on 13 May 1920, but this is
believed to be erroneous, as she and both of her husbands lived in
Seldovia, her first husband is buried in the Seldovia Hillside Cemetery,
and her own marker is in that Hillside Cemetery as well.

After her death Harry moved back to California and Elizabeth's children
were taken in by their half-siblings from Adam Bloch's first marriage,
the Johansen and Simmons families.

# Annie BLOCH Christiansen

## October 11, 1871, California -- January 11, 1921, Seldovia, Alaska

Annie BLOCH was the daughter of Adam Bloch and his first wife, Anny-Anna
(Malakoff) Bloch, and was born at the Presidio of San Francisco. She
married Julius Christiansen in about 1894 in Alaska. He was born between
Nov 1855 and Nov 1859 in Norway. She is buried in the Seldovia Hillside
Cemetery near her father and step-mother.\
\
A notice in the 2 Aug 1930 edition of The Fairbanks Daily News Miner
reads, \"DOING WELL IN NORWAY - Julius Christiansen, a resident of
Alaska for many years, is now a successful fox rancher in Norway,
according to the Seldovia Herald. Christiansen formerly resided at
Seldovia and left the Territory six years ago to establish a fox ranch
in his native land. He made his start in Alaska foxes and writes that he
is prospering.\"

# Robert Bruce Markle

## 1842 -- Monticello, Indiana -- May 28, 1920, Alaska

He was born in about 1842 in Monticello, White County, Indiana. He had
nine known full siblings and two half-brothers (from his father\'s
second marriage). He was married to Minnesota \"Minnie\" Elizabeth
Foster on 11 Jun 1879 at Cottoneva (now Rockport), Ten Mile Township,
Mendocino County, California by George W. Claxton, Justice of the Peace.
Minnie was a daughter of William McFadden and Sarah Ann Charlotte
(Murphy) Foster, survivors of the Donner Party. Robert and Minnie had
five known children: 1) Robert Bruce Markle, Jr.; 2) Elizabeth M.
(Markle) Richardson; 3) Henry-Harry Alfred Markle; 4) Charles-Carl
Oliver Markle; and 5) Margarite Love Markle. Any surviving biological
descendants would come from their daughter Elizabeth. Sometime prior to
24 May 1910 he and his wife were separated and presumably divorced, as
he was indicated to be a widower in the 1910 Census enumerated on that
date. His wife was similarly indicated to be a widow in the 1920 Census
enumerated on 6 Jan 1920, which was four months prior to his death.\
\
Susan E. (Bloch) English, a step-daughter of his son Henry-Harry Alfred
Markle, noted before her death that she knew him to be buried in
Hillside Cemetery. His name is also engraved on a marker in the Markle
family plot at Rose Memorial Park in Fort Bragg, California, but it
appears that it was added by one or more of his children as a cenotaph.\
\
His obituary in the 30 Jun 1920 edition of the Fort Bragg \[, Mendocino
County, CA\] Advocate reads, \"R. Bruce Markle died in Alaska May 28,
1920 at the age of 78. He had once been the Mendocino County surveyor
and a civil engineer with the Union Lumber Company in Fort Bragg. The
railroad tunnel at Fort Bragg was built under his supervision.\"

# Susan BLOCH English

## Feb. 26, 1904, Seldovia -Oct. 10, 1989, Seldovia

Susan BLOCH was born February 26, 1904 in Seldovia, Alaska to Adam Bloch
and Elizabeth BALASHOFF Bloch. When her mother died, Susan, at sixteen,
was left in Seldovia with three other younger siblings to care for. They
were taken in at some point by some relatives in Cordova that were from
the Adam Bloch's first marriage - the Johansson and the Simmons
families. Susan finished high school in Cordova, and worked in
restaurants and grocery stores to keep the family together. In 1921 she
received a letter from Juanita Anderson, who was a teacher in Seldovia
at the time, telling of a postmaster's job opening in Seldovia. She
brought the family back to Seldovia about 1923 and in 1925 got the
official position of postmaster, which she kept for 50 years until 1975
when she was forced to retire.

## Pioneer citizen in Seldovia Susan B. English dies at 82

### By Jan O'Meara Daily News correspondent

Homer -- Seldovia pioneer Susan B. English died Friday (October 10,
1986)at South Peninsula Hospital in Homer. She was 82. Mrs. English,
born, bred and wed in Seldovia, spent most of her life contributing her
time, energy and talents to the community. She was a postmaster for 49
years, served on a school board for 40 years and checked books out to
generations of Seldovia residents for nearly 50 years. In 1970 the Kenai
Peninsula Board of Education renamed the Seldovia school in her honor.
"She will be greatly missed." Said long-time friend Elaine Giles. She is
survived by her husband of 60 years, Jack English, a son, Art "Oscar"
English of Anchorage, a brother, Adam Bloch of Billings, Mont., a sister
Rika Risofff of Kenai, and five grandchildren. Mrs. English was born in
Seldovia on Feb. 26, 1904, as was her mother. Her father, a Civil War
veteran, was in Sitka at the time Alaska was transferred from Russian
ownership. He came to Seldovia in 1898 as agent for the Alaska
Commercial Company. By the time she was 16, both her parents had died,
leaving her in charge of a brother and two sisters. Er dreams of
becoming a school teacher ended. After a year at business school in
Washington, she and her family moved to Cordova, where she worked two
jobsL in a law office and for the town newspaper. It was a struggle to
support the family and also be father and mother to children who saw her
not as parent, but as sibling. But in 1925 she applied for and got the
job of postmaster in Seldovia. It was to be hers for nearly 50 years.
That same year she met Jack English. In their years together the couple
owned and operated a store, raised a family, and were involved in
community service. In 1927, Mrs. English went to work as a clerk for the
Seldovia School Board and continued to serve with them for more than 40
years. In 1936, she was instrumental in founding the Seldovia Library
and for the next 50 years it remained an abiding passion with her. She
collected books, did all the cataloging, wrote the grant applications
which brought the money for a new library building, and was at the
library nearly every day it was open -- until about a year ao, when ill
health forced her retirement, library board member Alberta Willard
recalled. For many new arrivals over the years, Susan English "was the
first smiling face you saw," Willard recalled. Generations of children
grew up knowing that if they were late wih their library books, it was
OK, Mrs. English would forgive them their fines. In a 1982 interview she
said, "I think a community is an extension of your family." Memorial
services will be held in Seldovia this week.

# John Philip (Jack) English

## Aug. 14, 1905 in Strathroy, Canada -Aug. 15, 1989

**Jack ENGLISH** was born in Strathroy, Canada in 1905 and
came to Seldovia in 1923 to work for Snug Harbor Packing Company. When
it closed down for the winter, he decided he didn't want to be a winter
watchman at Tuxedni Bay as he had the previous winter, so he ended up
staying in Seldovia during the winter of '23, '24. He met Susan Bloch
and they were married in December of 1925.

Anyway, some fun stories about Jack. Cheryl went over to visit him one
rainy, stormy night. We'd been working in the clinic but the power went
off, so we decided, "Oh well, that's the end of that."

And so she went over to the newsstand, which is next to the post office.
That empty room usually now that used to be the newsstand and \-- and
Susan and Jack ran that.

Anyway, they were sitting around in the dark, talking and Jack says to
Cheryl, "Well, let's have some fun with this power outage." So \-- so he
calls up, and I don't know who he called but he called somebody.

And said, "Yeah, it was Gladys. She was on a snow machine and she ran
over the power cord going up to the TV tower." He hangs up the phone. He
says, "Let's give it five."

In other words, how long is it going to take for the story to get back
to him in a different form. And it did, too. Five minutes later somebody
called and told us it was \-- it was Helen and \-- And, anyway, funny
story.

Who else? Notorious people in town. Squeaky

# Susan English: 'An extension of your family' (an interview) - 1982

Susan English is as much a part of Seldovia as the rocky tidal cove that
protrudes through the Kachemak Bay fishing community. The school is
named for her, the library was founded by her, and four generations of
Seldovians have been related to her.

She was born there in 1904 and has lived there most of her life. But her
sense of belonging comes from involvement, not endurance. She was
postmaster for 49 years, active with the school board and local health
boards for some 40 years, and a volunteer in nearly every community
project for five decades. She has an old-fashioned sense of community
commitment tht seems almost an anachronism today, but which has served
Seldovia for Susan English's entire life.

***Could you tell me about some of your involvements in the
community?***

It seems like everything Seldovia was involved with had my name there
someplace. The tiing that I believe in the most was the library, the
Seldovia Public Library. It has been the center of my love. We organized
the library in 1936. A lot of our projects, Seldovia had to do on its
own. We didn't have the government grants then that we do today. I think
volunteerism was important in the development of our library. All
through the years, o one was ever paid for their services at the library
or any other community project. Even today, I still volunteer at the
library. People tell me that I am too old and library work is too
demanding. But I just enjoy it so much. I love the books, I love to get
over there and do my own thing. It is a place for everyone. You are
never too old or too young for the library. The library and the room you
go into, the room full of books, is the most wonderful world you can
enter, no matter what you may be interested in. We have just ordinary
fiction and all the classics that tell how it used to be way back when.
We have books today that you don't have to go through pages and pages of
description; you can look at them and see them visually.

# What are your favorite books, your favorite parts of the library?

All of the classics. I love biographies telling about people's lives and
all the things people did. Just think of all the old books by all those
wonderful writers. Authors that point you in the right direction and
have pleasant thoughts and dreams, happy thoughts about life. I don't
like these horror stories today; they are painful. Before we had TV
Seldovia was very interested in the library. People take too many things
for granted; I think the community should take a lot of interest in
their library, more than they do.

# The concept of giving and volunteering seems important to you.

Yes. I think about all those grants the city gets now and how everyone
wants to be paid for their service to the community. I suppose they
can't be blames; it is just different. In the early days we didn't have
any of these grants and everyone had to learn to work together; the
whole community worked together. You learned to know each other. If you
were working together you became acquainted, you became a part of the
community. I feel sometimes like I am old fashioned and inadequate
trying to express myself and the way I feel. I guess there are certain
values that are basic human values; these will never change.

***You were born here in Seldovia. Was your entire family active in the
community?***

Yes. I was born here in 1907 and my mother was also born here. My father
and mother both taught us about giving to the community. It was
expected. My father was the commercial agent for Alaska Commercial
Company. He did everything around the community; he was father, mother
and doctor to many. He helped deliver babies and all that. I remember my
mother acting as a nurse a lot. My sister and I would go through the
village with her just like mini-public health nurses. We always had to
consider our fellow man and we had to do our own part in the world
because it was not here for our own selfish needs and such.

# How did your father get to Seldovia?

He came to Alaska as a Civil War veteran. He was in Sitka at the time of
the transfer from Russia. He came to Seldovia with Alaska Commercial
Company in the late 1800s. After the AC Company he went into his own
mercantile store business and was postmaster. Mother she was younger
than he by a lot; they married (his second) when she was only 16. She
was a wonderful wife and mother. So you see, with my family being
involved with health, with the store, with the mail, they were active
alright. Dad was also involved with the schools. That had something to
do with my desire to be a teacher. I never made it though.

# What prevented you?

My dad died when I was 11 and my mom died when I was 16. I had a brother
and two sisters, so I more or less had to help keep the family together.
I wasn't able to go on to be a teacher. I did manage to get in a year at
a business school in Washington. When I came back, my sister and I and
the children, we rented a place in Cordova. I went to work part time for
rank Foster, an attorney, and also worked for Kelly Robinson, who was
editor of the Cordova Times. That was in 1923. I had my brother and
younger sister then and we were finding it a little bit difficult trying
to keep on an even keel. I was trying to be a mother and father to
youngsters who didn't like me disciplining them. Then a letter came from
Seldovia saying the postmaster's job was opening and why didn't I apply,
after all, my father had served as postmaster for years. I thought it
over and talked it over with my siblings. My sister said, "Yes, Susan, I
think it will be much easier on all of us. I think you would make a good
postmaster." I said I didn't know, but the circumstances were such that
I thought it would be the best thing for the family. If we were going to
be together and stay together -- there were people urging me to put the
kids in an orphanage -- then I had to do the practical thing. Ever since
mother died all of the responsibilities of motherhood were on me. There
were limited funds from Dad's estate, that helped with education.
Anyways, being practical and conservative I chose to return to Seldovia
in 1925. I received an appointment in June of 1925. That is when I met
and married Jack; we were married in 1926.

# How did you and Jack meet?

He came to Seldovia in 1923 to work for Snug Harbor Packing Company. He
stayed and trapped in the winter. I was working in a restaurant waiting
for my appointment as postmaster to come through. The only services they
had in those days were the Admiral Lines, and they had Alaska Steamship
Lines. But this one morning the boat brought in lots of passengers. The
man I was working with didn't show up to help me, so there I was al y
myself, opening up the restaurant and trying to do everything. I was
really pressed for time; in those days we had pole stoves to do our
cooking on. Anyway, there was this nice young fella waiting her at this
counter. I think I had 20 other people; he was asking me if I was alone
her at the counter. It was about 7:30 a.m. I finally reached him and he
ordered his ham and eggs over-easy. I still remember. I took care of him
and he stayed and that's how we became acquainted. We were married a
year later.

***How did you manage to handle the children and everything else at age
16?***

I had wonderful friends. I had this strong feeling the family should
stay together. I believe that I am an unselfish person; I never put
myself first. I was really full of ideals. I haven't lost sight of the
and I believe in my thinking, the positive thinking I use. My faith and
knowing that there is a force of God, or whatever you want to name it,
to hold on to. I believe that a woman can be a mother and still be her
own person. I think people worry too much about all that today. You must
do your own thing first, you must be true to yourself. We all have a
responsibility in this old world. The main thing in life is to be caring
and to care for people no matter if the people around you respond. That
is why I send birthday cards every year. My mom and dad taught it to me,
it makes people feel good. You do it for others, because you care about
people. I literally send hundreds of cards a year.

***How did you manage to balance out all your activities as you became
wife, mother, postmaster, owner of a store, librarian?***

Jack, when he was around, was very supportive. We always contributed
together to the community. At first, when Jack and I were married, he
wanted me to give up the postmaster job. You know how men were in those
days. But we put the post office in our home. I'm a night person and
Jack was always helping me with the children. When I went to a meeting,
I was always doing something; he would help.

I guess it is that I feel that I am part of Seldovia. You know, my roots
are here; my mother was born here, I was born here, my children and
grandchildren, with the exception of one, were born here. That is four
generations of us in Seldovia. It gives you a feeling of being a part of
something, of being close. You know, living in a small community forces
you to grow. I was the postmaster for 49 years. In dealing with the
public, you know, they can be irritating and demanding. But people are
God's children. Who am I to demand approval or judge others: No matter
who you meet or who you are, if you sit down and visit with them, and
get to know them, you find out that they really have so much to give. If
you didn't make an effort, you may never know that person for their true
self. I have always been in contact with people this way, behind the
scenes, so to speak. After all, without the action of reaching out, what
good are words?

# Anything else on your philosophy of involvement?

Yes. I think the community is an extension of your family. If you want
to be involved in making a place better for your family, get involved.
It makes me very happy when someone visits our community and expresses
joy at what they find here. You want to be proud of your home and happy
in your home; you want it to be the best place for your family. You have
in your home an extension of the community. And you have in the
community, an extension of your home. It is like an eternal extension;
the basis of your participation and your home in the community is the
foundation for our borough, for our state, for our whole country.
Everything has to start in your home. If we are going to have the right
kind of community, you have to take part. You don't have to go into
regular politics to do so. All sorts of things bring good into the
community, like your schools, your church, and of course, your library.
It is the only way you become acquainted and feel a part of the place.
With involvement, you learn to love the people in the community and love
the community as a whole.

# Cecilia Majorie ENGLISH Gruber

# April 29, 1929, Seldovia, AK -- April 1983, Seldovia, AK
