---
full_name: James Henry Francis "Frank" Burgin
family_name: Burgin
given_names: James Henry Francis "Frank"
source_file: Frank Burgin
born: nil
died: nil
---
# James Henry Francis "Frank" Burgin

**February 7, 1879, Harrison, Missouri – June 11, 1938, Seldovia,
Alaska**

**James Henry Francis "FRANK" Burgin** was the first of Seldovia’s many
celebrated dentists\! He was born in Harrison, Missouri on February 7,
1879 to Fleming and Mary Burgin. His father was a physician and Frank as
well as two of his brothers entered the field of medicine. Frank
graduated from the Western Dental College in Kansas, Missouri in 1903.
In 1902 he married Georgia Travis in Harrison. In 1910 they were living
in Long Beach, California, where he was practicing as a dentist. During
WWI he was a private in the Marine Corps, based in Puget Sound
Washington.

Frank then married Mary Johanson in Seldovia in 1917. Mary was born in
Karluk, Alaska to Anton and Alexandria Chichenoff Johanson. Their
daughter Virginia Lee Burgin was born in Seldovia in 1918. Soon after
that they moved to Grand Junction, Colorado and their second daughter
Leona was born there in 1920. Sons Herschel (1922) and George (1925)
were born in Seldovia.

There was a burgeoning Burgin enclave in Delta. Frank’s brother, Charles
H. Burgin was a physician practicing in Delta and both Frank and Isam
often returned to Delta to spend time and practice their trades. Their
mother Mary also lived there with her daughter Margaret Coutts (a
nurse). She died there in 1925.

Frank’s brother, **Isam Burgin**, was also a physician living in
Seldovia, and in 1934 the Ninilchik schools raised enough money to hire
"Seldovia Doctor Isam Burgin to provide dental checkups for the town’s
children. Doctor Burgin and his equipment came in by dogsled from Homer
in late January."

In 1921, Frank acted as the administrator for the estate of Albert
Filmore.

In 1923, Frank, his brother Isam and Lawrence Dunning shared a salmon
fishing permit in Kachemak Bay.

The family was back in Colorado at least by 1928, this time in Denver,
where Frank operated Burgin Dental Laboratory. The 1930 US census lists
the family in King County, Washington where Frank was again practicing
dentistry.

Frank died in Seldovia June 11, 1938. He is buried in the Seldovia City
Cemetery, Plot \#97. Mary and the children were still living there in
1940. She died in Costa Mesa, California in 1992.
