---
birth_date: null
birth_place: null
cemetery_plot: null
death_date: null
death_place: null
family_name: null
given_names: null
title: David John Ericson
---

[**David John "Eric"
Erickson**](http://www.seldovia.com/david-john-eric-erickson/)

Posted: 13 Oct 2015 04:01 PM PDT

*Submitted by Frieda Erickson*

![Eric
Erickson](../assets/images/David John Ericson/media/image1.jpeg){width="2.4659722222222222in"
height="2.488888888888889in"}Oro Valley, AZ -- David John "Eric"
Erickson died on Tuesday, October 6, 2015, in Oro Valley. Eric was born
August 14, 1943, in Cheyenne, Wyoming to parents Harold Erickson and
Martha Leefers Erickson. He grew up in Cheyenne and graduated from the
University of Wyoming in 1966 with a degree in mathematics. Pursuing his
childhood dream of flying, Eric joined the U.S. Air Force and became a
pilot. He served in Vietnam before being recruited to join the Ravens,
an elite group of pilots who flew extremely dangerous and covert forward
air control missions in Laos during the Vietnam War. During his service,
he received a Purple Heart and two Air Medals. After his time in the
Ravens, Eric joined the Flying Tigers Line, which was later acquired by
Federal Express. He rose to the rank of Captain, and continued to fly
internationally until he retired in 2003.

Eric lived for many years near Spokane, Washington, before moving to
Alaska. He spent most of his retirement in the land of the midnight sun,
splitting his time between Wolf Lake and Seldovia. Retirement did not
lessen his love of flying and it did not keep him out of the cockpit.
Eric loved nothing more than showing off the beauty of Alaska to friends
and family while flying his beloved Cessna. Never one to sit still for
long or to pass up an adventure, Eric flew for the Iditarod Air Force
transporting mushers, sled dogs, and supplies along the 1,100 mile trail
between Anchorage and Nome. He also flew humanitarian relief missions
for the United Nations in the African country of Chad. Eric eventually
traded in his wings for wheels, and he and his wife Frieda spent the
past several summers exploring the "lower 48" in their motor coach. They
began spending winters in Oro Valley in 2014.

Eric will be remembered fondly by all who knew him for his sense of
humor, his catch phrases for every situation, his love of family, his
loyalty to friends, his patriotism, and his adventurous spirit.

Preceding Eric in death is his first wife, Joyce Erickson; his parents,
Harold and Martha Erickson; his brother, Harold Erickson; a stepson,
Lonnie Shippy; and a stepson-in-law, David Semmler.
