---
last_name: English
first_name: John P
aka: Jack
birth_date: 1905-08-14
birth_location: Canada
death_date: 1989-08-15
death_location: Seldovia, Alaska
cemetery_plot: 595
source_file: Cemetery Directory
---
**John P  Jack English** is buried in the Seldovia City Cemetery in plot 595.  The cause of death is unknown.

Aug 14, 1905 - Aug 15, 1989 (City records notation pneumonia)

**Jack ENGLISH** was born in Strathroy, Canada in 1905 and came to
Seldovia in 1923 to work for Snug Harbor Packing Company. When it closed
down for the winter, he decided he didn’t want to be a winter watchman
at Tuxedni Bay as he had the previous winter, so he ended up staying in
Seldovia during the winter of ’23, ’24. He met Susan Bloch and they were
married in December of 1925.

Anyway, some fun stories about Jack. Cheryl went over to visit him one
rainy, stormy night. We’d been working in the clinic but the power went
off, so we decided, "Oh well, that’s the end of that."

And so she went over to the newsstand, which is next to the post office.
That empty room usually now that used to be the newsstand and -- and
Susan and Jack ran that.

Anyway, they were sitting around in the dark, talking and Jack says to
Cheryl, "Well, let’s have some fun with this power outage." So -- so he
calls up, and I don’t know who he called but he called somebody.

And said, "Yeah, it was Gladys. She was on a snow machine and she ran
over the power cord going up to the TV tower." He hangs up the phone. He
says, "Let’s give it five."

In other words, how long is it going to take for the story to get back
to him in a different form. And it did, too. Five minutes later somebody
called and told us it was -- it was Helen and -- And, anyway, funny
story.

Who else? Notorious people in town. Squeaky

## Susan English: ‘An extension of your family’ (an interview) - 1982

Susan English is as much a part of Seldovia as the rocky tidal cove that
protrudes through the Kachemak Bay fishing community. The school is
named for her, the library was founded by her, and four generations of
Seldovians have been related to her.

She was born there in 1904 and has lived there most of her life. But her
sense of belonging comes from involvement, not endurance. She was
postmaster for 49 years, active with the school board and local health
boards for some 40 years, and a volunteer in nearly every community
project for five decades. She has an old-fashioned sense of community
commitment tht seems almost an anachronism today, but which has served
Seldovia for Susan English’s entire life.

***Could you tell me about some of your involvements in the
community?***

It seems like everything Seldovia was involved with had my name there
someplace. The tiing that I believe in the most was the library, the
Seldovia Public Library. It has been the center of my love. We organized
the library in 1936. A lot of our projects, Seldovia had to do on its
own. We didn’t have the government grants then that we do today. I think
volunteerism was important in the development of our library. All
through the years, o one was ever paid for their services at the library
or any other community project. Even today, I still volunteer at the
library. People tell me that I am too old and library work is too
demanding. But I just enjoy it so much. I love the books, I love to get
over there and do my own thing. It is a place for everyone. You are
never too old or too young for the library. The library and the room you
go into, the room full of books, is the most wonderful world you can
enter, no matter what you may be interested in. We have just ordinary
fiction and all the classics that tell how it used to be way back when.
We have books today that you don’t have to go through pages and pages of
description; you can look at them and see them visually.

### What are your favorite books, your favorite parts of the library?

All of the classics. I love biographies telling about people’s lives and
all the things people did. Just think of all the old books by all those
wonderful writers. Authors that point you in the right direction and
have pleasant thoughts and dreams, happy thoughts about life. I don’t
like these horror stories today; they are painful. Before we had TV
Seldovia was very interested in the library. People take too many things
for granted; I think the community should take a lot of interest in
their library, more than they do.

### The concept of giving and volunteering seems important to you.

Yes. I think about all those grants the city gets now and how everyone
wants to be paid for their service to the community. I suppose they
can’t be blames; it is just different. In the early days we didn’t
have any of these grants and everyone had to learn to work together; the
whole community worked together. You learned to know each other. If you
were working together you became acquainted, you became a part of the
community. I feel sometimes like I am old fashioned and inadequate
trying to express myself and the way I feel. I guess there are certain
values that are basic human values; these will never change.

### You were born here in Seldovia. Was your entire family active in the

community?

Yes. I was born here in 1907 and my mother was also born here. My father
and mother both taught us about giving to the community. It was
expected. My father was the commercial agent for Alaska Commercial
Company. He did everything around the community; he was father, mother
and doctor to many. He helped deliver babies and all that. I remember my
mother acting as a nurse a lot. My sister and I would go through the
village with her just like mini-public health nurses. We always had to
consider our fellow man and we had to do our own part in the world
because it was not here for our own selfish needs and such.

### How did your father get to Seldovia?

He came to Alaska as a Civil War veteran. He was in Sitka at the time of
the transfer from Russia. He came to Seldovia with Alaska Commercial
Company in the late 1800s. After the AC Company he went into his own
mercantile store business and was postmaster. Mother she was younger
than he by a lot; they married (his second) when she was only 16. She
was a wonderful wife and mother. So you see, with my family being
involved with health, with the store, with the mail, they were active
alright. Dad was also involved with the schools. That had something to
do with my desire to be a teacher. I never made it though.

### What prevented you?

My dad died when I was 11 and my mom died when I was 16. I had a brother
and two sisters, so I more or less had to help keep the family together.
I wasn’t able to go on to be a teacher. I did manage to get in a year at
a business school in Washington. When I came back, my sister and I and
the children, we rented a place in Cordova. I went to work part time for
rank Foster, an attorney, and also worked for Kelly Robinson, who was
editor of the Cordova Times. That was in 1923. I had my brother and
younger sister then and we were finding it a little bit difficult trying
to keep on an even keel. I was trying to be a mother and father to
youngsters who didn’t like me disciplining them. Then a letter came from
Seldovia saying the postmaster’s job was opening and why didn’t I apply,
after all, my father had served as postmaster for years. I thought it
over and talked it over with my siblings. My sister said, "Yes, Susan, I
think it will be much easier on all of us. I think you would make a good
postmaster." I said I didn’t know, but the circumstances were such that
I thought it would be the best thing for the family. If we were going to
be together and stay together – there were people urging me to put the
kids in an orphanage – then I had to do the practical thing. Ever since
mother died all of the responsibilities of motherhood were on me. There
were limited funds from Dad’s estate, that helped with education.
Anyways, being practical and conservative I chose to return to Seldovia
in 1925. I received an appointment in June of 1925. That is when I met
and married Jack; we were married in 1926.

### How did you and Jack meet?

He came to Seldovia in 1923 to work for Snug Harbor Packing Company. He
stayed and trapped in the winter. I was working in a restaurant waiting
for my appointment as postmaster to come through. The only services they
had in those days were the Admiral Lines, and they had Alaska Steamship
Lines. But this one morning the boat brought in lots of passengers. The
man I was working with didn’t show up to help me, so there I was al y
myself, opening up the restaurant and trying to do everything. I was
really pressed for time; in those days we had pole stoves to do our
cooking on. Anyway, there was this nice young fella waiting her at this
counter. I think I had 20 other people; he was asking me if I was alone
her at the counter. It was about 7:30 a.m. I finally reached him and he
ordered his ham and eggs over-easy. I still remember. I took care of him
and he stayed and that’s how we became acquainted. We were married a
year later.

***How did you manage to handle the children and everything else at age
16?***

I had wonderful friends. I had this strong feeling the family should
stay together. I believe that I am an unselfish person; I never put
myself first. I was really full of ideals. I haven’t lost sight of the
and I believe in my thinking, the positive thinking I use. My faith and
knowing that there is a force of God, or whatever you want to name it,
to hold on to. I believe that a woman can be a mother and still be her
own person. I think people worry too much about all that today. You must
do your own thing first, you must be true to yourself. We all have a
responsibility in this old world. The main thing in life is to be caring
and to care for people no matter if the people around you respond. That
is why I send birthday cards every year. My mom and dad taught it to me,
it makes people feel good. You do it for others, because you care about
people. I literally send hundreds of cards a year.

***How did you manage to balance out all your activities as you became
wife, mother, postmaster, owner of a store, librarian?***

Jack, when he was around, was very supportive. We always contributed
together to the community. At first, when Jack and I were married, he
wanted me to give up the postmaster job. You know how men were in those
days. But we put the post office in our home. I’m a night person and
Jack was always helping me with the children. When I went to a meeting,
I was always doing something; he would help.

I guess it is that I feel that I am part of Seldovia. You know, my roots
are here; my mother was born here, I was born here, my children and
grandchildren, with the exception of one, were born here. That is four
generations of us in Seldovia. It gives you a feeling of being a part of
something, of being close. You know, living in a small community forces
you to grow. I was the postmaster for 49 years. In dealing with the
public, you know, they can be irritating and demanding. But people are
God’s children. Who am I to demand approval or judge others: No matter
who you meet or who you are, if you sit down and visit with them, and
get to know them, you find out that they really have so much to give. If
you didn’t make an effort, you may never know that person for their true
self. I have always been in contact with people this way, behind the
scenes, so to speak. After all, without the action of reaching out, what
good are words?

### Anything else on your philosophy of involvement?

Yes. I think the community is an extension of your family. If you want
to be involved in making a place better for your family, get involved.
It makes me very happy when someone visits our community and expresses
joy at what they find here. You want to be proud of your home and happy
in your home; you want it to be the best place for your family. You have
in your home an extension of the community. And you have in the
community, an extension of your home. It is like an eternal extension;
the basis of your participation and your home in the community is the
foundation for our borough, for our state, for our whole country.
Everything has to start in your home. If we are going to have the right
kind of community, you have to take part. You don’t have to go into
regular politics to do so. All sorts of things bring good into the
community, like your schools, your church, and of course, your library.
It is the only way you become acquainted and feel a part of the place.
With involvement, you learn to love the people in the community and love
the community as a whole.



