---
last_name: English
maiden_name: Bloch
first_name: Susan
birth_date: 1904-02-26
birth_location: Seldovia, AK
death_date: 1986-10-10
cemetery_plot: 594
source_file: Cemetery Directory
---
# Susan BLOCH English


Susan BLOCH was born February 26, 1904 in Seldovia, Alaska to Adam Bloch
and Elizabeth BALASHOFF Bloch. When her mother died, Susan, at sixteen,
was left in Seldovia with three other younger siblings to care for. They
were taken in at some point by some relatives in Cordova that were from
the Adam Bloch’s first marriage - the Johansson and the Simmons
families. Susan finished high school in Cordova, and worked in
restaurants and grocery stores to keep the family together. In 1921 she
received a letter from Juanita Anderson, who was a teacher in Seldovia
at the time, telling of a postmaster’s job opening in Seldovia. She
brought the family back to Seldovia about 1923 and in 1925 got the
official position of postmaster, which she kept for 50 years until 1975
when she was forced to retire.

## Pioneer citizen in Seldovia Susan B. English dies at 82

### By Jan O’Meara Daily News correspondent

Homer – Seldovia pioneer Susan B. English died Friday (October 10,
1986)at South Peninsula Hospital in Homer. She was 82. Mrs. English,
born, bred and wed in Seldovia, spent most of her life contributing her
time, energy and talents to the community. She was a postmaster for 49
years, served on a school board for 40 years and checked books out to
generations of Seldovia residents for nearly 50 years. In 1970 the Kenai
Peninsula Board of Education renamed the Seldovia school in her honor.
"She will be greatly missed." Said long-time friend Elaine Giles. She
is survived by her husband of 60 years, Jack English, a son, Art "Oscar"
English of Anchorage, a brother, Adam Bloch of Billings, Mont., a sister
Rika Risofff of Kenai, and five grandchildren. Mrs. English was born in
Seldovia on Feb. 26, 1904, as was her mother. Her father, a Civil War
veteran, was in Sitka at the time Alaska was transferred from Russian
ownership. He came to Seldovia in 1898 as agent for the Alaska
Commercial Company. By the time she was 16, both her parents had died,
leaving her in charge of a brother and two sisters. Er dreams of
becoming a school teacher ended. After a year at business school in
Washington, she and her family moved to Cordova, where she worked two
jobsL in a law office and for the town newspaper. It was a struggle to
support the family and also be father and mother to children who saw her
not as parent, but as sibling. But in 1925 she applied for and got the
job of postmaster in Seldovia. It was to be hers for nearly 50 years.
That same year she met Jack English. In their years together the couple
owned and operated a store, raised a family, and were involved in
community service. In 1927, Mrs. English went to work as a clerk for the
Seldovia School Board and continued to serve with them for more than 40
years. In 1936, she was instrumental in founding the Seldovia Library
and for the next 50 years it remained an abiding passion with her. She
collected books, did all the cataloging, wrote the grant applications
which brought the money for a new library building, and was at the
library nearly every day it was open – until about a year ao, when ill
health forced her retirement, library board member Alberta Willard
recalled. For many new arrivals over the years, Susan English "was the
first smiling face you saw," Willard recalled. Generations of children
grew up knowing that if they were late wih their library books, it was
OK, Mrs. English would forgive them their fines. In a 1982 interview she
said, "I think a community is an extension of your family." Memorial
services will be held in Seldovia this week.

