---
birth_date: null
birth_place: null
cemetery_plot: null
death_date: null
death_place: null
family_name: null
given_names: null
title: William Richard Miller
---

# Harry Alfred LEONHARDT

**November 2, 1881 in Leipzeig, Germany -- December 16, 1949, Seldovia,
AK**

# Jenny (MOONIN?) Romanoff Leonhardt

-   **1876, Alaska - June 4, 1936, Seldovia, Alaska**

# Lillian "Lillie" Holm Leonhardt

# 1891, California -- 1956, Diller, Nebraska

**Harry Alfred Leonhardt** was born in Leipzeig, Germany
on November 2, 1881. He immigrated to the US in 1905 and became a
naturalized US citizen in Alaska in 1924. He appears in Seldovia Alaska
census records for 1920, 1930 and On August 31, 1931 he received a
patent for 71 acres of land on the east shore of Bear Cove in Kachemak
Bay. He and two partners, Charles Patterson and **[Jenny
Romanoff]{.smallcaps}**, started a fox farm there.

Elsa Pedersen wrote a book "*Kachemak Bay Years*" a memoir of her life
with her husband Ted Pedersen on a homestead at Bear Cove where they
were Harry's neighbors. She said " When we arrived (in 1944) Harry
Leonhardt was in his mid-60s with luxuriant white hair, craggy, ruddy,
weather-seamed features and an enormous bulbous nose that dominated his
face. He was always neat and fastidious. He spoke with a heavy German
accent although he had left his homeland nearly 50 years earlier... He
walked with a rolling gait that at first I thought was a leftover of his
years at sea. Later I learned he suffered from extremely painful
frostbitten feet.

Harry and Jenny homesteaded at Port Axel in Bear Cove at the head of
Kachemak Bay. They lived in a log house that had been built at the turn
of the century as part of the *Alaska Colonization and Development
Company*. "That project included plans to build a sawmill, mine coal
from the bluffs of the Homer side of the bay and catch and salt salmon
and herring and capitalize on the discovery of oil on the west side of
Cook Inlet. The company sent a work party of three Finn men who spent
two years at the Cove and built several log houses. They also cut a wide
right-of way for a road or a tramway that was still visible in 1944...
After the senior promotor died in 1905, the Port Axel project gradually
failed. Harry, Jenny and their fox farmer partner "Paddy" Patterson,
took over the place.

Harry's frostbite story was also recounted by Elsa Pedersen: "Years
earlier, before they owned the Nell, Harry had set out for Seldovia at
the end of autumn in the large packing skiff powered with an outboard
motor, to pick up the winter's supply of groceries. He arrived in town
without incident, loaded the next morning and was bound for home by
noon. A light southwest breeze helped him on his way. For the first hour
all went well. He was approaching McDonald Spit and Yukon Spit and Yukon
Island when the engine sputtered. He made adjustments and it ran a few
more minutes, then quit altogether. He could see the breeze was pushing
him across the mouth of Kachemak Bay and up Cook Inlet. He couldn't row;
the skiff was too heavily laden and the oars were buried under the load.
Drifting past Homer Spit he yelled and waived, but no one saw him. He
knew that if he drifted to the middle of the Inlet he was doomed. The
skiff would swamp, or if by some fluke he made it to the west side of
the Inlet there was no place he could take shelter, and he would die on
the beach. At dusk he saw an obstruction ahead. He recognized the Bluff
Point fish trap, now only a row of bare poles stuck in the water, the
wire fencing and connecting planks removed for the winter. He managed to
maneuver himself to the outermost pole and tied the skiff fast with the
painter. He didn't trust the skiff. It might break loose or swamp at any
time. He crawled up the fish trap pole as high as he could and lashed
himself as firmly as possible. At the fox farm, Jenny and Paddy worried
when Harry didn't return on schedule. They had no way of communicating
with town. When he didn't show up by nightfall of the day he was
expected. Paddy prepared to go to town with their second skiff and
outboard motor. He traveled near the beaches, hoping Harry had been
forced ashore and was waiting to be rescued. When he reached town and
reported Harry missing, the fishermen went into action. Most of the
fishing boats were hauled up for the winter, but the few still afloat
took off at once in search of Harry Leonhardt. They hunted until dark,
failed and set out again the following daylight. Harry hung on the trap
pole two nights and two days. The skiff had drifted away the first
night. Although his body remained dry, at every high tide his feet hung
in the water. When the water ebbed, his wet feet frosted until he could
no longer feel them. The boat that found him didn't see him at first,
tied as he was like a bundle of rags to the trap pole. The fishermen
made fast to an inside pole and Harry heard them talking on deck. His
tongue was so swollen with thirst he couldn't cry out. Finally he made
some weak sounds that attracted their attention. He was tough and
survived the ordeal, but his frosted, brine-soaked feet never healed.
Every winter they swelled and the toes split open, and he was lame for
the rest of his life.

**Jenny** was a legend around Kachemak Bay. It was said
that as soon as she spotted a boat coming up the bay she started
cooking, and by the time visitors came ashore she had a fine meal on the
table. She was known as "Steamboat Jenny" and Paddy explained why. She
was a short but extremely broad and muscular woman, agile on land but
awkward and fearful on a boat. One day she planned to go to Seldovia
with Harry on the Nell, which was moored in deep water in front of the
fox farm. Paddy rowed the two Leonhardts from the beach to the gas boat
in his skiff. In the process of transferring to the larger boat, Jenny
fell overboard. The men struggled mightily to lift her aboard, but with
her weight in addition to her water-soaked clothes they could not raise
her out of the water. Finally they put a rope around her and Paddy towed
her ashore. "She floated along just like a steamboat," he remarked when
recounting the experience to his friends, and thus Jenny received her
nickname. The fox farm made money while she was alive, and the men
admitted she had been the driving force. Jenny Leonhardt died in 1936
and is buried in the Seldovia City Cemetery, Plot \#114

Harry married **Lillian Holm** on February 6, 1939 in
Seldovia. Their marriage application listed him as having never been
married and her as having been married and divorced twice before.
According to Elsa Pedersen "Lillian had been a secretary in the San
Francisco Bay Area offices when she met and married an Alaskan. She and
her husband moved to Anchorage but did not enjoy the then war-crowded
town. They moved to a salmon set-net location, then bought an abandoned
fox farm near the head of Kachemak Bay, at Battle Creek, several miles
from Bear Cove. They spent a winter there, then Lillian took refuge at
Bear Cove. She divorced her husband, he left the area, and she married
Harry Leonhardt." They lived at his home in Bear Cove for a year or so,
but they were also remodeling a home in Seldovia. She and Jennie were
very different personalities and the locals were more comfortable with
Jenny's gusto and her occasional profanity, her hearty hospitality and
the way she ordered Harry and Paddy around. They found Lillian more cool
and distant.

Harry and Lillian lived in Seldovia where he died on December 16, 1949.
Again quoting Elsa Pedersen: "Harry Leonhardt had continued to insist
that cigarettes wouldn't hurt him as long as he rolled his own. He died
in Seldovia one morning in a coughing fit, over his first cup of coffee
and a cigarette."

Records for Lillie's life other than with Harry are sketchy, but she was
probably Lillian E. Holm, daughter of Gustav and Margaret Holm, born in
San Francisco, California, who in 1920 married Arthur Chesney in
Oakland, California, and they divorced and she remarried the person Elsa
describes as Lillian's husband before Harry. After Harry's death,
Lillian married Quinter Fry on October 15, 1952 in Diller, Nebraska. She
died in Diller on March 20, 1956 and is buried there.
