---
birth_date: null
birth_place: null
cemetery_plot: null
death_date: null
death_place: null
family_name: null
given_names: null
title: William Richard Miller
---

# HOLMSTROM Family

# Gustave Edvard Holmstrom

# 1881, Finland -- November 1934, Seldovia, Alaska

**Gustave Edvard Holmstrom was born in Finland about 1881.
Gus was known as "Contrary Gus". In 1930 he was married to a 2^nd^ wife
Anna Walnusson. He was included in the 1934 Seldovia B.I.A. census but
not 1938. It is likely he died in 1934.**

# Anna WALNUSSON Holmstrom

**February 15, 1876, Seldovia, Alaska -- October 28, 1941, Seldovia,
Alaska**

Anna J Walnusson Holmstrom was born in Seldovia to Stepen and Madrona
Walnusson. She first married someone named Slater and had five children,
Paul, Peter, Sergei, Fina and Fevronia. Anna and the children were
living together in Seldovia in 1910 and

**When Anna married Gus, sometime before 1920, her children became Gus's
adopted children and changed their last names from Slater to
Holmstrom.**

# Paul Holmstrom

**Paul was born in Alaska September 14, 1897. He married Agrifina
Socoloff in 1925 and they had two children. Agrifina later married Peter
Kalifonsky.**

# Sergei Holmstrom

**Sergei was born in Alaska November 29, 1902 and died August 18, 1941
in Seldovia. He married Helen Nelson December 26, 1924 in Seldovia. His
death was as a result of tuberculosis.**

Fred Elvsaas remembers: *"Sergay, well Sergay -he was blind and they
lived up right next to where Perry used to lived, where the Beech is,
there were two houses built identical, they were two alike and they had
a boardwalk between them, they were basic, two of them houses, and
Sergay was blind, but he could build little boats with clock engines in
them, and he had bird nests he had cut through the wall, because his
mother cut these little holes and built these little bird nests in 'em,
had swallows and he had 'em in cages and all kinds of this stuff. He was
really a neat guy when I was a kid, he was probably about, you know,
thirty or forty years old-what's it say here, he was twenty-nine in
'34"*

# Paul Holmstrom

Fred Elvsaas*: And up on the hill above me was a little, what was called
a half-a-house, owned by a guy named Paul Holstrom. They called him Kid
Holstrom because his dad was Paul Holstrom, too. And after his dad died,
he worked, but he was \-- he\'d gone to school a little bit and he was
fairly smart. And he went to Dad Ritchie and he said, \"I need to make a
will.\" He was about forty-some years old. And so he did. They drafted
up a will.*

*And he went down to the commissioner at the time and had it recorded.
You know, nobody did that in those days. And Kid Holstrom \-- our lagoon
used to freeze, and people would go up there skating, and fish whiting,
through the ice. It was a lot of whiting up there in the wintertime. And
Kid Holstrom went early. About, like, end of November. The ice wasn\'t
thick enough. He fell through and drowned.*

*And so then the commissioner at the time decided to sell the house. You
know, Holstrom kid, he had a daughter in Seward that nobody seemed to
know much about. But Dad Ritchie knew. Had her address and everything.*

*And the commissioner, she decides to sell the house. Well, a
storekeeper wanted to buy the house to sell to a guy who wanted to move
here from Snug Harbor. And he was thinking he could buy it for a couple
hundred dollars and sell it for a little more. And the house was \-- and
the property was, with ten feet around it, was appraised at \$200.*

*And so it was snowing and cold and miserable and the commissioner, she
just insisted that the sale be held on the steps of the house. And the
steps were about that wide. So one day she went there and about four
other guys that were interested in buying the house. Even though it was
only eight foot wide, and twenty-four foot \-- eight foot long and
twenty-four foot wide, because it was built like this but he never
finished the rest of it. He just boarded it off and lived in that.*

*And it was always called a half-a-house. Even \-- it wasn\'t even a
half a house.*

*But anyway, they started the bidding. And Dad was there, standing
there. And he was pretty old by then and he told me, you know, you come
up with me and walk with me.*

*And so they\'re \-- they\'re bidding and they get up to about three,
four hundred dollars. And Dad said, \"I\'ll bid \$400.\" Well, the
storekeeper went \$450. Dad said, \"I\'ll go \$600.\" He went up to
\$800. And the storekeeper quit. And everybody else quit and said, you
know, there\'s nothing worth \$800 in Seldovia. And so he paid off eight
one hundred dollar bills. And just surprised everybody. Told the
commissioner, make the title and give it to Gladys, my wife.*
