---
birth_date: null
birth_place: null
cemetery_plot: null
death_date: null
death_place: null
family_name: null
given_names: null
title: William Richard Miller
---

# John Abelard Ardenia

# Feb. 2, 1938 in Angoon, Alaska -- Nov. 12, 2008 in Seldovia, Alaska

![](assets/images/JOHN ABELARD ARDENIA/media/image1.jpeg){width="1.6458333333333333in"
height="2.2708333333333335in"}

(Alaska Native) **John Abelard Ardenia Sr**. died Friday,
Nov. 12, 2008, from a massive heart attack at his home at Lakeside
Terrace in Seldovia. He was 70. Note: John Ardenia's father was born in
the Philippines. His mother was an Alaska Tlinket Indian.

Funeral services were held Nov. 14, at St. Nicholas Russian Orthodox
Church in Seldovia. He was buried in the Seldovia Cemetery. Father
Sergie Active officiated. A celebration of his life followed at Lakeside
Terrace.

Mr. Ardenia was born Feb. 2, 1938, in Angoon. He attended school in
Angoon. In the early 1960s, he went to live in Juneau and worked as a
stone mason, fisherman and cook. In the late 1960s, he worked as a
handyman in Anchorage with a friend. He turned his hand as a card dealer
in a popular club and became acquainted with many people. He moved to
Seldovia in 1972.

He began salmon fishing in the summer of 1974 and fished on many boats
through the years. Through the mid 1970s he resumed his work as a
handyman and cook and also laid cement. In the early 1980s, he began
crabbing while fishing for cod and halibut and tendering in the summer.
In the early 1990s, he continued to fish for cod and halibut. He then
worked as a bartender at the Knight Spot Bar in Seldovia. He was a
member of the Russian Orthodox Church.

"John was a Tlinget Indian and was very proud of his native heritage. He
was taught about his Native way of life by his grandparents, Robert and
Tilly Zouboff and his mother, Lina Ardenia Rochas. He always talked to
his family and friends about his growing up years in Angoon and his time
spent in Juneau,\" his family said. \"John was a very hard and dedicated
worker in all the many jobs that he held in his life. He was an
excellent cook and made the best fried bread around, which he shared
with everyone. John met the love of his life, Agnes Dushkin in Anchorage
in 1975, and brought her to Seldovia where she still resides. They made
their home in Seldovia and raised four children. John was very generous
and helpful to all. He had a quick wit, loved life, had a great
knowledge of the sea, land and our earth. He loved to joke and loved his
children and grandchildren very much.\"

Mr. Ardenia was preceded in death by his parents, Albert Ardenia and
Lina Ireen Ardenia Rochas; brothers, Albert and Sami Ardenia,
mother-in-law **Justina Dushkin**; and granddaughter **Adrianna Rose
Ardenia**.

# Justina Kuzakin Dushkin

# Oct 15, 1912 in Belkofski, Alaska - March 18, 2003 Seldovia, Alaska

Lifelong Alaskan Justina Alice Dushkin, 90, died on March 18, 2003 at
South Peninsula Hospital Long Term Care, where she had lived for the
last seven years.

Mrs. Dushkin was born Oct. 15, 1912 in Belkofski to George Kuzakin and
Alice Vereskin Kuzakin. She worked in the summers at King Cove Cannery.
Her husband, Nicholas Dushkin was a priest and also a fisherman during
the summers.

She was preceded in death by her husband, Nicholas Dushkin, who died in
1965; her daughters, Josephine Gould and Sara J. Turner, and her son
Richard Dushkin.

She is survived by her sons, Steven, George, Nicholas Jr., and Simeon
Dushkin of Anchorage, and Eugene Dushkin of Mesa, Ariz., and daughters
Alice Balamoutoff of Anchorage, Annie Barnard of Portland, Ore. and
Agnes J. Dushkin of Seldovia; and many grandchildren,
great-grandchildren, and nieces and nephews.

# Adrianna Rose Ardenia

# October 8, 1996, Seldovia, Alaska -- 1996, Seldovia, Alaska
