---
full_name: "Hank Kroll"
family_name: "Kroll"
given_names: "Hank"
source_file: "Hank Kroll"
born: nil
died: nil
cemetry_plot: 
---
# Hank Kroll

## Alaska's Mad Trapper 1949 Seldovia

![http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-DLwb5ZOY8nw/TwaRBQBoEaI/AAAAAAAAAyI/YiSXwbXYKxI/s640/168587\_489420054393\_613504393\_5572942\_3914048\_n.jpg](../assets/images/Hank%20Kroll/media/image1.jpeg)

**Reprinted with permission** from The Free Lance Star Fredericksburg,
Virginia [fredericksburg.com](http://fredericksburg.com/)  
  
**Mad Trapper of Seldovia** By Eileen Mead - The Free-Lance Star -
August 20, 1988  
  
When I saw the movie "Crocodile Dundee" recently, I was reminded of
Henry "Hank" Kroll, the legendary Mad trapper of Seldovia, whom I met
the summer after my sophomore year at the University of Alaska.  
  
A college friend, the late Midge English, had invited me to spend the
Summer of 1949 with her and her family in Seldovia on Cook Inlet. It was
a picturesque fishing village of about 200 people, and at the time, it
could only be reached by boat or seaplane.  
  
I had been there about a week when Midge and I joined some of her
friends at the movies. Shortly after we were greeted, someone behind me
suddenly grabbed two clumps of my long, curly hair and yanked.  
  
"Scooch down in your seat. I hates bushy-haired women," a man growled
into my ear.  
  
I whirled around expecting to see one of Midge's friends, but found
myself looking into the glowering face of a bearded older man, a
stranger to me.  
  
I "scooched" down and looked questioningly at Midge, who appeared not to
have noticed the encounter. I stayed in my crouched position during the
movie, until I forgot and sat up in the midst of an exciting chase
scene.  
  
I felt a hand pushing down on the top of my head and heard the man
behind me say, "I knew you wouldn't sit still." I was afraid to get up
and leave, so I sat cowering.  
  
Finally, the movie was over and the lights went on. I told Midge, in a
whisper, what had happened. She laughed out loud and said, "Oh, that was
only the Mad trapper." As we walked outside, thee bearded man, Kroll,
came forward and introduced himself.             

![http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-p6T0ReJl5C4/TwaSTOCCgqI/AAAAAAAAAyY/wym-B\_MR12o/s640/Seldovia.jpg](../assets/images/Hank%20Kroll/media/image2.jpeg)

FThe Theater is the square building on the left.

"Sorry, I just loves to scare pretty girls," he said, laughing. He
invited our whole group to his house for some "good music."
Surprisingly, Midge and everyone else started walking toward the house,
pulling me along with them. Midge explained that the trapper was
harmless, but very unpredictable. He and his wife, Lois, a public health
nurse, owned and operated a large floating cannery at Snug Harbor and a
goldmine near Mount McKinley, and he often carried around a fruit-jar
filled with gold nuggets. They had several "nice, normal" little kids.  
  
She said Kroll was considered to be a true genius. He had taught himself
to play every instrument from the violin to the tuba.  
  
He also taught himself to fly an airplane, and he built his own airplane
from spare parts. After Kroll had been flying it for some time, she
said, he flew the airplane to Anchorage and hired an instructor do take
him up for a "refresher course." Once They were airborne, Kroll started
asking questions about flying that prompted the instructor to ask him
who had taught him to fly. When Kroll said he'd taught himself and had
built the airplane, the instructor bailed out. Some time later, Midge
said, the engine fell out off the airplane near Valdez and Kroll managed
to glide in and land on a glacier.

![http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-KSxkyQoG4pU/TwaRhoWfzCI/AAAAAAAAAyQ/1hkpYFmMQkE/s400/grandpa.jpg](../assets/images/Hank%20Kroll/media/image3.jpeg)

The trapper earned his title, she said, because he was an excellent
trapper. Once a movie company came to town to shoot some scenes and said
they needed some live wolverines. Kroll went out into the woods and a
short time later came back with one wolverine strapped to his backboard
and leading another by a makeshift leash. He had muzzled the animal by
strapping a stick between its teeth. Another U. of Alaska alumnus, Dick
Inglima, who now lives in Homer, Alaska, recalled the time he flew with
Kroll to Anchorage. Midway there, he said, Kroll said he was tired and
asked him if he would fly the airplane. Inglima said he didn't know
anything about flying, so Kroll gave him a few instructions and told him
to follow the cliffs into Anchorage then fell asleep. As they approached
Anchorage, Inglima became nervous and awakened Kroll.  
  
  
"Kroll thanked me for waking him and told me he was glad I hadn't tried
to land it myself," Inglima said. Once, Inglima said, Kroll had a
dispute with a fishing partner, but he told the partner that they would
wait until they got back to Seldovia where they could fight it out under
the boardwalk, where all disputes are settled in the town.

"His partner was younger and more agile and he won the fight. Kroll got
up, brushed himself off and asked his partner if he wanted to fish with
him again the next Summer," Inglima said.  
  
The night I went to Kroll's house with Midge and her friends, he
insisted upon making us his "special" drink. He poured Eagle Brand, a
sweetened condensed milk, and cherry Kool-Aid into a seltzer bottle and
inserted a charge. A thick, pink substance billowed out of the container
into our glasses and, although it was sickeningly sweet, we politely
drank it.  
  
When we finished, he laughed and slapped his knee saying, "Isn't that
horrible stuff? I only make it to watch people squirm while they drink
it."  
  
I forgave him for everything after I heard him play the violin and then
the piano. Like I was told, the man was a genius.
