---
full_name: "Joseph Arthur \"Joe\" Kurtz"
last_name: "Kurtz"
first_name: "Joseph Arthur \"Joe\""
source_file: "Joseph Arthur Kurtz"
birth_location: "October 31, 1909, Wisconsin "
death_location: " August 29, 2003, Anchorage"
cemetery_plot: 
---
# Joseph Arthur "Joe" Kurtz

## October 31, 1909, Wisconsin - August 29, 2003, Anchorage

**Joseph Arthur KURTZ** 93, died August 29, 2003 at Providence Alaska
Medical Center of natural causes. A graveside service was held at
Seldovia Cemetery. Mr. Kurtz was born October 31, 1909 in Monico,
Wisconsin to Joseph and Ella Orth Kurtz. He completed high school.
Mr. Kurtz began living in Alaska in the late 30's and was a resident of
Seldovia and Anchorage. He was an avid reader. Mr. Kurtz was a trapper
and a miner. His family wrote: "Upon reading Jack London's book: The
Call of the Wild, Mr. Kurtz was inspired to venture to Alaska. Arriving
in the late 30's, Joe initially worked at Lucky Shot Mine. He also
trapped in the Yukon with his brother, Erwin and Crockett Metcalfe. He
worked construction on the White Alice project and helped to build Fort
Richardson. Mr. Kurtz then started commercial fishing with his brother,
Erwin and brother-in-law, Jack Lewis in the late 40's. He fished salmon,
halibut and finally king crab, before retiring from the Bering Sea
Fishery in the 90's.Mr. Kurtz was a very generous person who enjoyed
good physical and mental health. He maintained a home and a boat in
Seldovia where he lived and worked out of for the past 50 years. He also
kept homes in Anchorage and Seattle. He exemplified the true Alaskan
pioneer spirit in his independence and character." Mr. Kurtz was
preceded in death by his sister Genie Lewis, brother-in-law, Jack Lewis
and his brother, Erwin Kurtz. He is survived by his wife, Olivia Kurtz,
step daughters, Cheryl, Diane and Beverley Davis, sister-in-law, Vivian
Kurtz of Anchorage, nephews and nieces, Steve and Barbara and Jason
Lewis of Kenai, Dan Kurtz and family of Seattle, Art, Becky and Richard
Kurtz and their families all of Anchorage. Published in The Seattle
Times on Sept. 7, 2003

A video, "Pots of Gold – A History of the Alaska King Crab Fishery",
produced in conjunction with Seattle’s Nordic Heritage Museum, features
interviews with crab industry pioneers like Joe Kurtz, who built the
first crab pots out of surplus Army bed frames. In the early 1950’s
Bering Sea fishermen were experimenting with the round pots used for
Dungeness crabs in the south, but they broke apart in the rough waters
of the Bering Sea. Joe came across a bunch of steel-framed surplus army
cost on a local military base and got an inspiration. "We took the
springs out and knocked the cots apart," he said. "It was easy to do
with a heavy hammer and chisel. One whack and you cut the rivets. We
stood two of them up on edge, cut the third one in two, and took the
pieces we got out of that for the ends. We ended up with a pot that was
sixty-three inches long – because that’s what an army cot was". Thus the
modern steel box-shaped crab pot was invented. Eventually the fishermen
discarded the cots and made pots from scratch, stringing chicken wire
between the frames of welded steel rods.

One of Joe Kurtz’ fishing vessels was the *Amatuli:*

The Amatuli is a 111' fishing vessel, built in 1967 by Pacific Fisherman
Shipyard in Ballard, Washington for Joe Kurtz of Seldova, AK. It was
sold to Bart Eaton in 1974, and became a part of Trident Seafoods later
in the decade. As one if the top high liners in the Bering Sea, the
Amatuli was "the boat to fish on". In 1988 she was sold to Bill Widing,
Dan Gunn, & Peter Liske... In 1999 Peter sold out to Bill and Dan. In
2009 Dan Mattsen bought Dan Gunn out... She is currently owned by
Mattsen and Widing. Her captains are Bryce Buholm and Robert Pattison.  
  
She starts her year filming Opilio crab for Deadliest Catch as the chase
boat. Then in the beginning of March she goes to Chignik to tender cod,
time permitting they will hit Sitka for herring. In the beginning of May
she makes her way to Togiak (western Bristol Bay) for another herring
fishery. June, July and Augest she tender salmon in The Shumigan
Islands, Bristol Bay, Prince William Sound, and sometimes Dutch Harbor
or Kodiak In the fall they fish or tender cod. Starting October 15 we
start filming King Crab for deadliest catch that usually finishes our
year, give or take the random charter we pick
up.![](../assets/images/Joseph%20Arthur%20Kurtz/media/image1.jpeg)
