---
full_name: "Grace Gleason Miller"
last_name: "Miller"
first_name: "Grace Gleason"
source_file: "Richard Miller"
birth_location:
death_location:
cemetery_plot: 
---
# Grace Gleason Miller

**December 18, 1907, Box Elder, Utah – December 26, 1979, Homer,
Alaska**

Grace Gleason was born in Box Elder, Utah to Alvirus Horace Gleason and
Augusta Elizabeth Larson

**Richard William MILLER**, who always went by the name of "Dick", was
born in San Francisco California on May 2, 1908 to William Otis Miller
and Alma Amelia Hextrum Miller. He was the youngest of three brothers
and they were raised in Marin north of San Francisco.

Seldovia resident Mike Miller relates that when his dad was about 18
years old he made an agreement with his father. His father had some
property in La Honda, California and Dick promised that he would build
him a house if his father would send him to flying school. So Dick built
a house of redwood logs that is still standing and then he went to
flying school in Santa Maria, California.

About that time Grace Gleason was arriving in California. She had been
born on December 18, 1907 in Box Elder, Utah and she was of Mormon
stock, although her family weren’t practicing Mormons. Her cousin had
come to California before her and had married Dick’s older brother, so
they invited Grace to stay with them. Grace worked as a long distance
telephone operator in San Rafael. She and Dick were married and lived in
the house he built in La Honda while he commuted to San Francisco for
work.

It was difficult to get any flying jobs during the Depression so Dick
and a friend named Ed Leavitt went to work on the Oakland Bay Bridge,
and then the Golden Gate Bridge. He was on a barge under the Golden Gate
Bridge lifting some heavy steel that fell and crushed his toes.

So both he and Ed quit and moved on to Seattle and got on a boat called
*The Discovery*. It was a mail boat that used to run out of Seward and
up Cook Inlet. They arrived in Seward in 1937, and were still not able
to find any flying jobs. But they did eventually get a job in Candle, on
the north side of the Seward Peninsula. There was quite a bit of gold
mining there and they got a job putting in access roads into the mines.
They worked one summer there and returned to California where they both
had families. The next summer Dick returned to Alaska and was finally
able to get a job flying out of Anchorage. He brought the family to
Anchorage and was based out of there from 1937 until 1945.

During that time he also taught flying lessons and taught almost 2,000
people to fly, including famous Denali bush pilot Don Sheldon.

In 1945, the year that Seldovia was incorporated as a "Second Class
City", it also saw its first airplane service: Miller's Seldovia Air
Service - 6 passenger double wing Waco float plane, pilot was Dick
Miller. The plane was tethered to the Seldovia dock. Harry White, a
pilot living in Kenai asked Dick to fly his plane and base out of
Seldovia for the summer. The family moved to Seldovia and lived in the
old Beachcomber Hotel. Dick had the airplane on a running line right
down on the beach in front of the hotel. It was quite a busy operation
in those days because there were four salmon canneries and they were
always flying people in and out. There was no airfield in Seldovia at
the time but when Beluga Lake was created in Homer it became possible
for floatplane travel between Seldovia and Homer. In 1947, Dick and a
partner, Earl Herr, bought a plane from Arnold Air Service in Anchorage.
Later that year they sold it to Merrill Ward Henington. More than $4000
had been paid on the purchase price by Henington when, on January 30,
1948, the plane disappeared from its ramp on the shore of Seldovia
Harbor. Some time later a wing float, identified as from that type of
plane, was brought to Seldovia and it was reported that it had washed
ashore about 10 miles from Seldovia.

He flew Harry White’s plane for two seasons and then bought his own
plane – a Stinson, a big radial engine on floats. During his second
season with that plane he was hauling gasoline in 5 gallon Blazo boxes
up to Jakolof Bay. He landed and taxied up to the beach, and jumped out
to get someone to help him unload the gas. He was away from the plane
when it suddenly exploded and burned up immediately. After that Dick
flew for several years but never owned another plane. One of the planes
he flew was a Seabee Republic, an amphibious aircraft. Then Dick and
Carl Nordenson, who was a commercial fisherman and owned the Linwood Bar
at the time, bought a three-seater Tri-Pacer. Dick flew that plane back
and forth to Homer for $8 each way. Then Alaska Airlines came in and
dropped the price to $6 and that was the end of Dick’s flying. Flying
was really important to him, but by then he had come to love Seldovia
and just didn’t want to pack up and leave. Dick flew out of Seldovia
between 1945 and 1950.

Next Dick became a loft foreman for Al Villa at the Alaska Shellfish
Company. That fall he became chief of police for the city of Seldovia.
It wasn’t a great paying job for a family man so he supplemented by
being the winter watchman at Alaska Year Round Canneries (AYR). There
was a house on the premises where the family could live and eat food
left over in the commissary.

Grace worked in Tyndle Lipke’s dress shop and in Frank Raby’s store for
a number of years.

In 1956, Dick died of cancer and the family moved back to Mill Valley,
California. She rented a place and she stayed in California until she
died in 1979. She did return to Alaska one summer with both children and
they all went to Kodiak and fished with Fleming Giles.

JAN YAEGER: And he was the only police officer or did he have some help?

MIKE MILLER: He was the only one, but Seldovia -- things were a lot
different in those days, you know.

In the first place -- yeah, he was the only one. There was no -- there
was no deputy or anything like that, but what he would do --

This is before the days of area fishing, and so what would happen is
that all these guys from -- at Fourth of July, just before Fourth of
July, all these guys would show up from both the Columbia River Gang.
They called them the Columbia River Gang.

There was a contingent of them that would put their boats on Alaska
Steamship and they’d haul them up to Cordova and they'd fish Cordova and
Copper River Flats and so forth first.

And then they’d run their boats from there over to Seldovia, and then
they’d be here for the Fourth of July and then they’d fish out here.

And some of ’em, though -- some of them did go on, instead of stopping
here, from the other areas and go to Bristol Bay. They’d haul them over
on the -- on the highway. Well, on the road you know, from Lake Iliamna,
or over to Lake Iliamna and down.

But the ones that would come in here, I -- I remember, when I was a kid,
I remember those guys coming in from Cordova and I mean hundreds of
boats.

And they’d -- the harbor would -- I mean we didn’t have a boat harbor in
those days. There was just the float one out there.

But they’d come in at -- I remember one time they come in at high tide
and it was the middle of the night, you know, or real earl -- there was
daylight real early in the morning, but they came in and actually tied
up to the boardwalk, you know, like along in front of the Polar Bar and
different places like that.

And they all went dry and boats were laying this way and this way and
all over, you know, everybody. (Laughter) It was just a -- it was really
something.

But they’d come to town and especially these -- these Columbia River
boys, they were really a bad bunch. And they just figure, you know, they
were big, all big, all well over six feet, all of those guys. And there
was -- I think there was six or eight of them.

And they’d come to town. They just figure the town’s theirs. They’re
going to take over, you know, and they’d -- hell, they’d just do
whatever they want.

And Dad’d -- we -- in those days we didn’t have regular telephones. They
had the old -- like the cop’s phone was a short and a long, and you know
you’d ring the thing like that and so dad would get this short and long.

Of course, everybody, soon as everybody heard the short and long,
everybody -- you’d hear, click, click, click, click, click, click,
click, people all over trying to -- (phone ringing)

JAN YAEGER: So we're continuing with Mike Miller and you were talking
about the Columbia River Gang. MIKE MILLER: Oh, yeah.

JAN YAEGER: It would come in and kind of take over the town and what
your dad would have to do.

MIKE MILLER: Right. And so what he’d do in those days when they were --
start causing problems, he’d just go down to the Linwood or Surf Club or
Polar Bar or whichever one they weren’t raising all the hell in, and
he’d go over and say, "Hey, I deputize you, you and -- " Locals, you
know.

And so the whole bunch of them would get together and they’d go down
there and take over. You know, throw them in jail or do whatever and
that’s the way they did it.

And when my dad was first a cop, the jail consisted of a little white
shack, a clapboard shack that was up on the hill. Well, right across
from where the power plant is.

And -- there -- it was just a little white building with a sloped roof
and it had a Celotex ceiling and it had, oh, like a shed roof off the
back of it like a kalidor (like an arctic entryway attached to the
outside of the house, perhaps based on the Russian word, koridor).

And so when they'd throw somebody in jail there, you know, most of them,
they were drunk and they just pass out and sleep it off or whatever and
they’d get up.

And I remember there was a -- there was a -- oh, what do you call it?
Hatch in the ceiling, and if they wanted to get out, they’d just go up
to the hatch in the ceiling and then it had another little trap door in
the back over the top of the shed roof and they’d knock that open and go
out and go back downtown again, you know.

Oh, boy, it was something else.

And then, of course, they built -- finally built the new jail out of
block. And then they -- they had a big steel door and they could hold
them in there, but he’d get so exasperated.

And they -- not only did they -- that was the jail, but they also used
it for the morgue. If somebody died they take them in there and lay ’em
down in there.

I remember as kids, you know, staring in there and seeing somebody’s
hair sticking up out of there. (Laughter)

But yeah, so, dad would go down and they’d -- you know, they’d -- he’d
round up a bunch of people and they’d go and make them -- make them go
to jail or shut up or slow down or go back to the boat or whatever, you
know.

And I know one time, he went to confront them himself for some reason
first I guess, and this one guy, one of the Columbia River boys -- dad
had that sap in his hand,

and the guy grabbed him or some -- maybe one of them come up from behind
him. I’m not sure, but one of them grabbed him and actually broke the
sap, or the strap, off of his wrist and hit him over the head with it.

And then all the local guys all piled in and tore them off and saved
dad, you know, from his problem there. That was -- that was a tough one.

But that’s what they did. And then they had this -- they called it --
you getting a blue ticket out of town, too, that was the other thing.

If somebody raised too much hell around here, well, then the City of
Seldovia would put them on an airplane and send them out of here with
the instructions don’t come back. We don’t need you here.

And then what was the other one that they -- if somebody drank too much.
If their drinking was a real problem like if they went -- if they had
family and they didn’t -- wouldn’t take care of their family, and they
spent all their money drinking.

What did they used to call that? One was a blue ticket out of town and
the other one, oh, 96'd or 86'd.

86 they call it. Yeah, you’re 86'd. That means you can’t have a drink in
town, you can’t buy a drink, you can’t do anything so --

JAN YAEGER: So it was a lot of town -- town cooperation, in other words,
was pretty important for --

MIKE MILLER: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, it was something. Yeah, that -- those
were some of the highlights that I remember, anyway.

JAN YAEGER: It sounds like an awfully challenging job. Did he enjoy
being a police officer?

MIKE MILLER: No, he hated it. My dad -- my dad was one of the nicest --
I mean the best-liked guys.

When he was a pilot, you know, he was just everybody’s friend and
everybody’s buddy and got along. He was always laughing and happy.

And he got to be the cop, and immediately fifty percent of the people
hated his guts. And he -- it just really bothered him, ’cause he -- it
was important for him to be liked, you know, as an individual.

And I remember he’d come home and he’d just tell mom, you know, about
oh, God, I hate this. I just hate this job, but had to make a living
some way, so --

And then -- then he went -- then he got throat cancer and he worked --

We didn’t know he had cancer, but that spring his throat started
bothering him, a sore throat, but it was just before the busy part of
the year and so he continued to work down in the cannery and be the cop
all summer long.

And then as soon as the season was over, he and I -- I’d been gone
fishing. And I remember I made $924. And so I had money, and dad got his
pay check and we -- he and I flew up to Anchorage with Bob Gruber.

And we went to the -- what do you call it -- Anchorage Hotel, which is
attached to the Westward Hotel or I don’t know what they call it now. I
think it's still the Anchorage Westward.

We got a room in there and I was -- dad -- our doctor at that time was
old Doc Romig -- Howard Romig, and he was a good friend of dad’s. Dad
and Doc Romig used to hunt together, do all sorts of things together.

But anyway we got up there that time and dad said -- now I had my check
and he had his check. Mine was for $900 and some dollars and his was for
$3,000 something.

And he says, "Now," he says, "I want you to go across the street." I was
fourteen years old.

And he said, "I want you to go across the street over there to the Bank
of Amer -- " No, NBA. NB of A. Their main office, or I think their only
office for in Anchorage in those days, was there on Fourth Avenue

And he says, "Go over there. Take these checks over there and go ask for
-- " Oh, what’s the name of the president of the bank there? Rasmuson,
Elmer Rasmuson.

He said, "Now, go over there and just ask somebody for Elmer Rasmuson."
And I said, "Okay."

So I stood in line, scared and everything, and I got up to the teller
and I says, "My dad told me I have to see Elmer Rasmuson."

And Elmer Ras -- there was a back of the -- opposite from the entry door
on the back wall, there was an office back there, it had all the glass
and the door was open, you know, like the old bankers always did, you
know. You always have to leave the door open.

And so she said, "Oh, let me help you." And so she walked me over there
and she said, "Mr. Rasmuson." And he said, "Yes."

And she says, "Well, I have this young man to see you." And so, yeah, I
was ushered in there and sat. "What can I -- what can I do for you,
young man?"

And I says, "Well, my dad told me to come over and see you and get these
checks cashed."

And he said, "Oh, who’s your dad?" And I says, "Dick Miller." "Oh, Dick
Miller from Seldovia that lives in Seldovia?" And I says, "Oh, yeah,
yeah, yeah." "Fine," he says, "well what have you got there?"

So, anyway, he cashed the checks and, you know, put them in a couple of
envelopes and so forth. And he said, "Where’s your dad now?" I said,
"Well, he's over in the -- in the hotel over here."

And he says, "Well, why isn’t he over?" I says, "Oh, he’s awful sick.
He’s got a real bad sore throat." "Okay," he says, "I’ll go over with
you." So we went across the street and he went up and, "Hey, Dick, you
know, how you doing?" And they talked and dad couldn’t hardly talk, his
throat was so messed up.

But I always remember that, you know, Elmer Rasmuson. You know he was
quite a man. How many millions and millions of dollars that he’s donated
to Alaska, Alaska’s people, you know.

It was something. But he was -- that was something to know someone like
that -- I mean, meet somebody like that and under those circumstances.

So anyway, from there I went and got my summer -- or my winter clothes
at the Army Navy Store. It was on Fourth Avenue back in those days. I
went and got all my clothes there and dad flew Outside.

Well, he saw Doc Romig and Dr. Romig says, no, he says, you better go
Outside. So he went out to Virginia Mason in Seattle and I went home.
And then we found that he had cancer. It went all downhill from there,
you know.

But -- and then I was going to say, he came back up again in -- what
month did he -- he came back up on in December, yeah, back in December.

And he said he was going to have to go back down again, but he came home
for the holidays. And needed money.

So he saw Jack English, who was the magistrate, and said, you know, so
Jack says, "Well, yeah, I can put you back to work as cop." They didn’t
have anybody -- a cop at the time for some reason.

So dad went back to work and he went downtown one night on his -- on his
rounds, he called it. He just walked around town. In the summertime he
rode a bicycle.

But he went down to one of the bars and a local guy down there, I’m not
going to mention any names, but he was raising all sorts of hell. And so
dad says, "Hey, you know, you got to take it easy." And the guy gave him
all sorts of hell. So dad was going to throw him in jail.

So they went outside and started walking him up to jail and the guy told
him, he says, "You think you’re something else. You take that badge off
and I’ll show you what for or whatever."

The old man, he took his badge off and they got in a fight. And the guy
grabbed him by his throat and just about killed the old man, you know.

So, I mean, to this day I don’t know if that had anything to do with it
or not, but I mean, we’d had no idea that he was terminal, that he was
going to go.

And then when he went back down again, he never came back so. That was
always -- that was a tough one to take. Yeah.

JAN YAEGER: Well, I guess, I don’t want to keep you too much longer, but
-- MIKE MILLER: No.

JAN YAEGER: Obviously, you came back to Seldovia and decided -- MIKE
MILLER: Oh, yeah. JAN YAEGER: -- to raise kids here. MIKE MILLER: Oh,
yeah.

JAN YAEGER: What brought you back? What made you want to come back here?

MIKE MILLER: I -- you know, it just -- I don’t know really. I just came
back and I just felt so at home here and felt so good to be back and to
see all the people that I knew, you know. And, of course, there was a
lot of new people, then, too, but I just felt so much at home.

And started fishing out of here and our house became available for sale
over here and, you know, I bought it and we just stayed, you know.

I was married to Pam at the time and, you know, we were here for --
until let’s see, from --

I came back in ’75. I bought the place in September of ’75. And she and
I were only together until ’78 or ’79.

And then, so, her folks lived up in Anchorage and her dad was retiring
and they wanted to move out to Puyallup, Washington and they wanted to
sell their house up there and that was really during the tough time of
-- for real estate up in Anchorage, you know. Couldn’t -- things weren’t
moving very much.

And so we decided to buy their place and so we were -- I was going to
live -- move up there, too, but then we got --

I don’t know what happened and our life got separated and so she took
the kids and went up there and I stayed down here and the kids came down
and stayed with me every time they could and so forth.

And we worked everything out and that’s, you know -- and it's kind of
really surprised -- JAN YAEGER: That’s the house you're in now? MIKE
MILLER: Pardon?

JAN YAEGER: That’s the house you're in now, that you’ve been in?

MIKE MILLER: Yeah. Yeah. What’s really a surprise to me though is the
girls, you know, that they’ve actually decided that they want to live
here. Yeah.
