---
birth_date: null
birth_place: null
cemetery_plot: null
death_date: null
death_place: null
family_name: null
given_names: null
title: William Richard Miller
---

# Peter Pemberton

# 1859 in Massachusetts -- Dec. 26, 1940, Seldovia, AK

**Peter "Pete" Pemberton** was born in Massachusetts
sometime between 1859 and 1862. He first shows up in Alaska records in
1910 when he was at Fort Gibbon. Fort Gibbon was as U.S. army base at
the confluence of the Yukon and Tanana rivers, near the community of
Tanana. It was built in 1899 and abandoned 1923. In response to reports
of lawlessness in Alaska during the Klondike Gold Rush, six forts were
built in the territory at the end of the 19th century.

During the late 1800s, the large ships that travelled the Yukon River
would unload cargo at Tanana and smaller vessels would carry the cargo
up the Tanana River for delivery. Fort Gibbon was able to monitor trade
along the Yukon and Tanana rivers and restore order among the gold rush
miners and the Natives.

The necessity of maintaining order in the Territory decreased as the
gold rush began to wind down. However a new purpose for Fort Gibbon
developed with the creation of the WAMCATS. Construction of the WAMCATS
telegraph line began in 1903 and eventually connected the Territory of
Alaska with the continental United States via an underwater cable.
Shortly after completion of the telegraph line wireless radio began to
augment and replace the telegraph lines. Fort Gibbon evolved into a
wireless station. Units were rotated through garrison duty at Fort
Gibbon. Elements of the 10th, 16th, 22nd and 30th Infantry Regiments
served at Fort Gibbon in addition to other units. Companies C and D of
the 22nd served at Fort Gibbon between 1908 and 1910. Fort Gibbon was
closed in 1923.

Fort Gibbon appeared once on the 1920 U.S. Census as an unincorporated
military installation. Owing to its deactivation in 1923, it was not
reported again.

In 1920 Pete Pemberton was in Nenana working in the US Commisary shop

Skookum Creek is a tributary of Rosy Creek. Pete Pemberton held claim
No.2 above as of 17 February 1909. (Fort Gibbon, Mining Locations, 1:
34.)

In 1922-23 Ed Brooker, Jr., took time off from his senior year in high
school Outside to join his parents in Kantishna, where Ed Brooker, Sr.,
was U.S. Commissioner and Postmaster. \[30\] After riding the train from
Seward young Ed was greeted by his mother at McKinley Station where she
had been working as a cook at Morino\'s Roadhouse. Together they
travelled by pack train through the park to Kantishna.

As Kantishna\'s commissioner, the elder Brooker was judge, chief law
officer, mining claim recorder, and, generally, \"the Government\" as it
existed in bush Alaska in those early days. He had just finished leading
a posse that subdued and shipped out a deranged German miner who had
been shooting up the Glen Creek camp. When young Ed and his mother
arrived unexpectedly at Brooker\'s tent on Friday Creek at midnight, the
youngster shook the tent frame without saying a word, wanting to
surprise his dad. Still jittery from the ordeal with the German, Brooker
cried out, \"Who\'s there?\" Ed didn\'t answer, but shook the tent
again, whereupon he heard: \"Tell me who you are or I\'m coming out
shooting!\" \"Needless to say,\" Ed recalls, \"I spoke up. We had a
happy reunion.\"

That summer of 1922 Ed and his dad built a log cabin on Friday Creek, on
the flat where it breaks out of the hills. They made it eight logs high
so they would not have to stoop when they moved around inside. Frank Ten
Byck, who also lived at the foot of the hill, helped them saw lumber for
the roof, which they tarpapered and sodded.

Father and son climbed Monument Dome often that summer, so called
because of the USGS survey marker on top. It is now called Brooker
Mountain after Ed\'s dad. Ed accompanied Joe Quigley and \"Dirty\" Pete
Pemberton on a trip out to the railroad and Fairbanks so he could visit
old school friends. \"Joe was a regular mountain goat in hiking, and
Pete and I were dragged out at the end of each day. We went light and
ate light. This was the way Joe traveled.\" Joe stayed on in Fairbanks
so Ed and Pete traveled back without him over the still unmarked trail
through the park. They carried a rifle for bear protection but didn\'t
need it. \"We saw all manner of wild game which was a thrill.\"

In 1930 Pete was in Anchorage, working as a watchman at a salmon
cannery. When he died in Seldovia on December 26, 1940 he had been ill
for several months. His death certificate listed his occupation as
"miner".
