---
birth_date: null
birth_place: null
cemetery_plot: null
death_date: null
death_place: null
family_name: null
given_names: null
title: William Richard Miller
---

# Hilts Family

The story of the **HILTS** family in Alaska begins with the arrival of
Rodney and his wife Sunni and their five children in 1970. It was to be
a one-year move and a stepping-stone to get to Homer, but that was
before they laid eyes on Seldovia. \"We came on the ferry and came
around the corner and Rod said, \'Forget Homer,\' and I said, \'Thank
you, God,\'\" said Sunni Hilts. After teaching one year, Sunni Hilts has
worked as a substitute teacher and ran a local substance-abuse program.
Rod Hilts taught until 1987 and then went to work for Seldovia Village
Tribe. During their years in Seldovia, the Hilts family has lost several
family members. A wave swept their son from a fishing boat, their
daughter died in 2000 and her husband not long after that. They lost an
adopted daughter to substance abuse. \"My ties to this community are
really strong,\" said Hilts. \"It\'s one of those kinds of communities
that people know too much about each other, but when there\'s a problem,
they all come together.\"

# Mildred Elizabeth HILTS Gronlund

**June 23, 1902, Colorado Springs, Colorado -- September 7, 1998,
Seldovia, Alaska**

# Mildred HILTS Gronlund was Rodney Hilts' aunt.

# David Hilts

On February 22, 1987, while setting king crab pots off of Augustine
Island in Kamashak Bay area, David was swept overboard by a rogue wave.
He was fishing on the 100-foot fishing vessel F/V *Alliance* and the
weather was inclement. The Alliance was a 100-foot king crab fishing
vessel, that regularly fished in that type of weather. The wave that
washed David overboard also damaged crab pots that were on the deck,
ripped a crab pot out of the launch rack from the hydraulic dogs locking
it down and washed another deckhand off his feet, pushing him under the
launch rack. The first sighting of David was when he was seen
approximately 100 yards off the starboard stern of the vessel. All
attempts to rescue him were unsuccessful. He disappeared beneath the
vessel's bow and was then seen sinking beneath the water. The Alliance
crew searched for many hours, returned to Seldovia and notified the
Coast Guard, which conducted a thorough search for several days.

# Della HILTS Baines

## May 19, 1958, Noatak, Alaska -- April 13, 2000 Seldovia, Alaska

Della was adopted by Rod and Sunni Hilts, and she lived in Seldovia from
1970 until her death. She married **[Daniel Richard
Baines** in 1988.

# Daniel Richard Baines

**December 29, 1954, Ketchikan, Alaska -- April 6, 2002, Red Dog Mine,
Alaska**

**DANIEL RICHARD "Danny" BAINES** was born in Ketchikan
December 29, 1954. He grew up in Sitka but spent time all over the state
of Alaska. He worked on the Alaska Pipeline, at the Sitka Pulp Mill and
in various locations within the fishing industry in Alaska. He held a
master's license from the U.S. Coast Guard. He was a truck driver at Red
Dog Mine near Kotzebue at the time of his death. He enjoyed outdoor
activities and traveling with his sons. \"Danny is greatly remembered
for his quiet strength and passion for life and for a great love for his
family.\"
