---
birth_date: null
birth_place: null
cemetery_plot: null
death_date: null
death_place: null
family_name: null
given_names: null
title: William Richard Miller
---

# William Vinal

# March 14, 1860, Maine -- died July 3, 1940, Seldovia, AK

# Harriet J. SOUTHERLAND Vinal

# October 20, 1867, Maine -- died October 10, 1937, Seldovia, AK

**Harriet J. SOUTHERLAND Vinal** was born October 20, 1867
in Portage, Maine to Charles and Caroline Sutherland.

**William A. Vinal** was born March 14, 1860 in Orono,
Maine to William and Katherine Cristy Vinal. He was educated in the
University of Maine and followed the profession of surveyor and engineer
for nine years. During a period of eleven years of his life he was
engaged in the lumber business in his native state. He came to Nome in
1900 and engaged in mining on Hungry Creek. He was successful in this
venture, and subsequently mined on Kasson Creek in the Solomon country.
He has also operated on Anvil Creek. During the season of 1904 he
co-operated with Mr. Olebaum in opening land developing No. 9 Solomon,
which proved to be a very valuable property. Mr. Vinal has spent two
winters in Nome and all the summers since 1900. He became the Nome
representative of the Alaska-Boston Construction and Mining Company, a
Massachusetts corporation operating in Seward Peninsula. In 1904, Mr.
Vinal acquired valuable and extensive interests for this company in the
Solomon River region. These interests comprise a group of claims on
Solomon River at the mouth of Penny, and the Matlock & Beagle property,
which includes a valuable water right and two miles of ditch already
constructed.

The property acquired for his company comprises thirty-four claims
situated south of the mouth of Penny River and extending a distance up
Shovel Creek. This property includes the Halla Bar.

Mr. Vinal was a member of an old and prominent family of Massachusetts
who trace their lineage back to English and Scotch ancestors. He is
married. Mrs. Vinal was formerly Miss Hattie Sutherland, a relative of
Miss Sutherland, one of the efficient teachers in the Nome public
school. Mr. Vinal is an enterprising and industrious man. Without any
blare of trumpets he has made money out of the mines of the Nome country
ever since his first season\'s operations and the property which he has
recently acquired for his company is unquestionably valuable, and under
hydraulic operation will undoubtedly yield a large quantity of gold.
Â *Source: Nome and Seward Peninsula by R. S. Harrison. Seattle: The
Metropolitan Press, 1905.*

1929: William A. Vinal is a United States Commissioner at Seldovia,
Alaska. Mr. Vinal writes---"Do not picture all of Alaska as a land of
snow and ice--- mighty glaciers and bitter cold. No--- Think that here
in an open garden. I picked the most beautiful pansies on the 18th day
of February last and that the grass on the lawn was green until the
fifth of March." Source University of Maine Alumni Magazine 1929

Fairbanks News Miner: August 6, 1940

Death came to William A. Vinal, former United States commissioner at
Seldovia and resident of lower Cook Inlet community for the past 12
years. Judge Vinal was born 80 years ago in the state of Maine and was
graduated from the state university. He took pride in his adherence to
New England traditions, was a staunch Republican in his politics and
always said that his party would come back into power and be stronger
than ever in the administration of national affairs. In his early life
he was a school teacher, later he and Mrs. Vinal came west and finally
to Alaska. They lived at Nome and also on the Kuskokwim, where their
mines, operated on royalty basis, are still profitably producing. He
went to Seldovia as commissioner, later investing in the Alaska Year
Round cannery, an interest that he disposed of a year or two ago. The
past few years Judge Vinal spent his winters at a home he purchased on
the shores of Lake Washington. Perhaps it was a year ago that he was
married the second time to a neighbor of the Lake Washington home-place.
Mrs. Vinal was present at the last sad leave taking.
