---
full_name: "Frances Lucille JENKINS Williamson"
last_name: "Williamson"
first_name: "Frances Lucille Jenkins"
source_file: "Williamson Mike and Frances"
birth_location: "October 30, 1927, Yoakum, Texas "
death_location: " August 7, 2001, Seldovia, Alaska"
cemetry_plot: 
---
# Frances Lucille JENKINS Williamson

## October 30, 1927, Yoakum, Texas – August 7, 2001, Seldovia, Alaska

**Marlin "Mike" Thomas Williamson** was born in Corvalis, Oregon on June
17, 1926. He was the youngest of the 5 children of Emma and Charlie
Williamson. He lost his mother when he was 3 and grew up with his father
and siblings, Lloyd, Beaula, Harry and Chuck. The Williamsons were a
lively, good-hearted bunch. They learned young to work hard and take
care of themselves and each other. As Mike would say, they were "as
independent as a hog on
ice".![](../assets/images/Williamson%20Mike%20and%20Frances/media/image1.png)

In Oregon, Mike learned early to hunt, fish and trap. He told old
stories of how he would go out spotlighting with his friends and then on
the way home, they would distribute the bounty to families who needed
the meat. Mike’s freezer was always full of something good to eat. As
much as he enjoyed the challenge of hunting, Mike was never needlessly
cruel or wasteful, although he did hold a special distaste for Bears.
"The only good bear is a dead bear.", he would say.

Mike had logged with his father using horses. Soon, he began working as
a log truck driver and formed a partnership with his friend Neil
Holbrook. This was in the days before power steering or engine brakes.
Each load required binders of chain and cable to be tossed up and over
the logs which required incredible strength. During his entire career,
he never took a sick day; nor missed a hunting season. Hunting trips to
Eastern Oregon were a yearly ritual, accompanied by old friends such as
Fred Anthony and others.

Mike married **Frances Jenkins** on February 17, 1945. Frances was born
into a larged family in Yoakum, Texas October 30, 1927. By 1935 the
family was living in Oregon.

Mike was a devoted provider and Frances always had dinner waiting for
him when he came home from work. Tragedy struck when their two small
children, Sandra Lee and Tommy, perished in an accident in 1947. Their
devastation only abated when their adopted son, Zonnie Lee, was born in
1958.

Perseverance, strength and improvisation were integral to Mike
Williamson.  For example, he needed a barn on a 40 acre parcel near
Eugene Oregon that he acquired from his father. So he built himself a
barn; a big barn. As a truck driver in Oregon, Mike always worked on his
truck himself. When Zonnie was old enough, Mike always took him to the
truck shop on Saturdays when the maintenance was done. Later, in Alaska,
Mike kept a reputation of being able to make do with whatever he could
scrounge from his junk pile, or the city dump. It was either "fix it" or
"fix it so that nobody else can fix it".

Mike drove truck for Austin Logging in Gold Beach, Oregon for many
years. When the boss, Glen Austin, retired in 1968, Mike drove a dump
truck for Dale Wood. Dale had a son who went to Alaska to work on the
North Slope. He was planning a trip to visit his son and suggested that
Mike meet him in Fairbanks. Mike bought a 20 foot camping trailer and,
with Frances and Zon, headed north to Alaska in May 1969.

Mike fell in love with Alaska. Driving back from Seward, he decided to
take a left turn to go to the end of the road in Homer. At the end of
the Homer Spit, he was talking to the locals at the Salty Dawg. They
told him that there was logging going on across the Kachemak in Jakolof
Bay. The wages were incredible, plus overtime. He would fall timber
until a driver position opened.

Mike flew over to Jakolof, Frances and Zon waited on the Spit to bring
the pickup and trailer over to Seldovia on the Tustumena. In Seldovia,
Jack English arranged for Mike to park the trailer near the Russian
Orthodox Church. The unused utilities there had been established for the
urban renewal workers after the 1964 earthquake.

Hunting season came along and Mike brought home his first moose, and a
new freezer to put it in. Frances and Zon were old hands at cutting and
wrapping. There was always an ample supply of moose, goat, sheep, fish,
crab and clams in the Williamson freezer. Mike sought out the old timers
to hear their stories. He listened eagerly as Frank Raby, Steve
Zawistowski and Herb Lindersmidt told of their early days in Alaska.
Mike made friends with the younger generation, Jim and Tom Hopkins, Doug
Giles, and Lowell "Doc" Suydam to name but a few. Everyone knew that
Mike was a good man to go hunting with, as long as you could keep up the
pace\!

The logging companies in Jakolof came and went over the years. Mike was
always there to drive. When the logging eventually ceased, Mike, now in
his sixties, went to work as a deck hand crabbing. He made several trips
to Cook Inlet and the Bering Sea. Mike was also available to drive dump
truck for Jim Hopkins in Seldovia and Dwight Glanville in Homer.
Eventually, Mike settled down to fur trapping in the mountains above
Jakolof and Seldovia.

Mike’s formal education ended at eighth grade; however he never failed
to learn what he needed to accomplish a task. He could figure the value
of a load of logs or gravel, double-check his time book, build roof
trusses and negotiate rental and sales agreements for real estate. He
loved to read old magazine articles about Alaska. Mike enjoyed the
explanations of modern science and technology that Zon would bring home
from his studies at Stanford University.

Zon, now known as "Tsuri", had settled in Pittsburgh Pennsylvania in
1987 and once or twice a year he and his family would come back to
Seldovia for extended visits. Mike’s beloved Frances had passed away in
2001 and he was not interested to travel outside Alaska. When his health
failed in 2010, the decision was made to bring him to Pittsburgh for
care. Living with his son, near five grandchildren and eight
great-grandchildren in an Orthodox Jewish community in "civilization"
was Mike’s final great
adventure.![](../assets/images/Williamson%20Mike%20and%20Frances/media/image2.jpeg)

Mike passed away peacefully on Monday morning, February 11, 2013. To the
end, he was aware that he was loved and cared for by family. Mike was
not an overtly religious man and in the tradition of the old-time
loggers, he was always referring to his deity one way or the other. He
used to say that, when on top of the mountains hunting goat, he expected
it was as close to Heaven as he would ever get. However; judging by his
accomplishments, his good name and the love and respect showered upon
him by friends and family, Heaven surely has acquired a new resident
Mountain Man.

*To contact or send condolences to Mike’s family:  Tsuri and Batsheva
Williamson at 5720 Munhall Rd, Pittsburgh, PA. 15217-2010   
[412-480-4913](tel:412-480-4913)*
