---
birth_date: null
birth_place: null
cemetery_plot: null
death_date: null
death_place: null
family_name: null
given_names: null
title: William Richard Miller
---

# Wilson Family

**The Wilson name in this family line comes from James Russell Wilson
who was born in Scotland and died sometime after his marriage to Katrina
Pomfilov in Kenai in August 1880. Ekatrina had previously been married
to Paul Panfin in Kenai and they had two children, Filipp (Philip) and
Paul. When Ekatrina married James Wilson the children took the Wilson
last name. Philip Panshin Wilson was born 1874 in Kenai and died 1941.
He married Sofia Myshiakov and they had 11 children including Abraham
(1915-1974). Abe married Tania Sorokovikoff. Tanya was
born in Kenai, October 10, 1922.**

# Tanya SOROKOVIKOFF Wilson

**October 10, 1922, Kenai, Alaska -- September 24, 1987, Seldovia,
Alaska**

# Ann Marie WILSON Anderson

# January 9, 1947, Seldovia, Alaska - , Seldovia, Alaska

**Ann Marie Wilson Anderson was born January 9, 1947 in Seldovia, where
she was a lifelong resident except for a stint from 1974-1979 in
Anchorage. She married Andy Anderson on February 11, 1967. Their
daughter, Donica Mae was born in Seldovia on December 23, 1968. Ann was
a member of the Seldovia Bible Church. She ejoyed beading, swimming and
the Girls' Card Night playing Snertz. "Ann was a beloved wife, mother,
grandmother, sister, aunt and loyal friend; a person who cherished
friendships and was eager to share with others. A beautiful person, both
inside and out which was only accented by her beautiful smile. She was
loved, not only by her family, but by an entire community. Through her
long illness she remained positive and tended to be concerned aout those
close to her even more than her own problems." *Seldovia City Cemetery:
Section 4-199***

# Kenneth Wilson

# July 10, 1942,Seldovia, Alaska -- August 28, Seldovia, Alaska
